 “In school we learn that mistakes are bad, and we are punished for making them. Yet, if you look at the way humans are designed to learn, we learn by making mistakes. We learn to walk by falling down. If we never fell down, we would never walk.”
 “Winners are not afraid of losing. But losers are. Failure is part of the process of success. People who avoid failure also avoid success.”
 “You’re only poor if you give up. The most important thing is that you did something. Most people only talk and dream of getting rich. You’ve done something.”
 “If you’re the kind of person who has no guts, you just give up every time life pushes you. If you’re that kind of person, you’ll live all your life playing it safe, doing the right things, saving yourself for something that never happens. Then, you die a boring old man.”
 “I’d rather welcome change than cling to the past.”
 “The love of money is the root of all evil."The lack of money is the root of all evil.”
 “Emotions are what make us human. Make us real. The word 'emotion' stands for energy in motion. Be truthful about your emotions, and use your mind and emotions in your favor, not against yourself.”
 “The single most powerful asset we all have is our mind. If it is trained well, it can create enormous wealth in what seems to be an instant.”
 “If you realize that you're the problem, then you can change yourself, learn something and grow wiser. Don't blame other people for your problems.”
 “Workers work hard enough to not be fired, and owners pay just enough so that workers won't quit.”
 “I like Texas and Texans. In Texas, everything is bigger. When Texans win, they win big. And when they lose, it's spectacular.If you really want to learn the attitude of how to handle risk, losing and failure, go to San Antonio and visit the Alamo. The Alamo is a great story of brave people who chose to fight, knowing there was no hope of success against overwhelming odds. They chose to die instead of surrendering. It's an inspiring story worthy of study; nonetheless, it's still a tragic military defeat. They got their butts kicked. A failure if you will. They lost. So how do Texans handle failure? They still shout, "Remember the Alamo!"That's why I like Texans so much. They took a great failure and turned it into a tourist destination that makes them millions.Texans don't bury their failures. They get inspired by them. They take their failures and turn them into rallying cries. Failure inspires Texans to become winners. But that formula is not just the formula for Texans. It is formula for all winners.”
 “As I said, I wish I could say it was easy. It wasn't, but it wasn't hard either. But without a strong reason or purpose, anything in life is hard. ”
 “I am concerned that too many people are focused too much on money and not on their greatest wealth, which is their education. If people are prepared to be flexible, keep an open mind and learn, they will grow richer and richer through the changes. If they think money will solve the problems, I am afraid those people will have a rough ride. Intelligence solves problems and produces money. Money without financial intelligence is money soon gone.”
 “To know a little about a lot.”
 “It is said that the fear of public speaking is a fear greater than death for most people. According to psychiatrists, the fear of public speaking is caused by the fear of ostracism, the fear of standing out, the fear of criticism, the fear of ridicule, the fear of being an outcast. THE FEAR OF BEING DIFFERENT PREVENTS MOST PEOPLE FROM SEEKING NEW WAYS TO SOLVE THEIR PROBLEMS.”
 “Whenever you feel ‘short’ or in ‘need’ of something, give what you want first and it will come back in buckets. That is true for money, a smile, love, friendship. I know it is often the last thing a person may want to do, but it has always worked for me. I just trust that the principle of reciprocity is true, and I give what I want.”
 “I find so many people struggling, often working harder, simply because they cling to old ideas. They want things to be the way they were; they resist change. I know people who are losing their jobs or their houses, and they blame technology or theeconomy or their boss. Sadly they fail to realize that they might be the problem. Old ideas are their biggest liability. It is a liability simply because they fail to realize that while that idea or way of doing something was an asset yesterday, yesterday is gone.”
 “We all have tremendous potential, and we all are blessed with gifts. Yet, the one thing that holds all of us back is some degree of self-doubt. It is not so much the lack of technical information that holds us back, but more the lack of self-confidence.”
 “In the real world outside of academics, something more than just grades isrequired. I have heard it called "guts," "chutzpah," "balls," "audacity," "bravado," "cunning," "daring," "tenacity" and"brilliance." This factor, whatever it is labeled, ultimately decidesone's future much more than school grades.”
 “Stop blaming me, thinking I'm the problem. If you think I'm the problem, then you have to change me. If you realize that you're the problem, then you can change yourself, learn something and grow wiser. Most people want everyone else in the world to change themselves. Let me tell you, it's easier to change yourself than everyone else.”
 “Just know that it’s fear that keeps most people working at a job. The fear of not paying their bills. The fear of being fired. The fear of not having enough money. the fear of starting over.That’s the price of studying to learn a profession or trade, and then working for money. Most people become a slave to money… and then get angry at their boss.”
 “There is a difference between being poor and being broke. Broke is temporary. Poor is eternal.”
 “الكل يريد الذهاب الى الجنة لكن الكل لايريد ان يموت”
 “Excessive fear and self-doubt that were the greatest detractors of personal genius.”
 “Learn to use your emotions to think, not think with your emotions.”
 “I can't afford it' shut down your brain. it didn't have to think anymore. besides, it also brings up sadness. a helplessness that leads to despondency and often depression. 'How can I afford it?' opened up the brain. forced it to think and search fro answers. it also opens up possibilities, excitement and dreams and created a stronger mind and dynamic spirit.”
 “Most people fail to realize that in life, it’s not how much money you make, it’s how much money you keep.”
 “If fear is too strong, the genius is suppressed”
 “Leadership is what you need to learn next”
 “Going into our fear and confronting our greed, our weaknesses, our neediness is the way out. And the way out is through the mind, by choosing our thoughts.”
 “An intelligent person hires people who are more intelligent than he is.”
 “Rule #1: You must know the difference between an asset and a liability, and buy assets. If you want to be rich, this is all you need to know. It is rule number one. It is the only rule. This may sound absurdly simple, but most people have no idea how profound this rule is. Most people struggle financially because they do not know the difference between an asset and a liability. “Rich people acquire assets. The poor and middle class acquire liabilities that they think are assets, “ said rich dad.”
 “أني الشئ الأصعب في تكوين ثورة هو الأمانة مع النفس، والرغبة في التحرر من متابعة القطيع.”
 “They get up every day and go work for money, not taking the time to ask the question, ‘Is there another way?”
 “People who avoid failure also avoid success.”
 “The idea that “it takes money to make money” is the thinking of financially unsophisticated people. It does not mean that they’re not intelligent. They have simply not learned the science of money making money. Money is only an idea. If you want more money, simply change your thinking. Every self-made person started small with an idea, and then turned it into something big. The same applies to investing. It takes only a few dollars to start and grow it into something big. I meet so many people who spend their lives chasing the big deal, or trying to amass a lot of money to get into a big deal, but to me that is foolish. Too often I have seen unsophisticated investors put their large nest egg into one deal and lose most of it rapidly. They may have been good workers, but they were not good investors. Education and wisdom about money are important. Start early. Buy a book. Go to a seminar. Practice. Start small. I turned $5,000 cash into a one-million-dollar asset producing $5,000 a month cash flow in less than six years. But I started learning as a kid. I encourage you to learn, because it’s not that hard. In fact, it’s pretty easy once you get the hang of it. I think I have made my message clear. It’s what is in your head that determines what is in your hands. Money is only an idea. There is a great book called Think and Grow Rich. The title is not Work Hard and Grow Rich. Learn to have money work hard for you, and your life will be easier and happier. Today, don’t play it safe. Play it smart.”
 “We only memorize historical dates and names, not the lesson.”
 “The poor and the middle class work for money. The rich have money work for them.”
 “It is not much different from a person who goes to the gym to exercise on a regular basis versus someone who sits on the couch watching television. Proper physical exercise increases your chances of health, and proper mental exercise increases your chances for wealth. Laziness decreases both health and wealth.”
 “Today, wealth is in information. And the person who has the most timely information owns the wealth.”
 “There is always risk, so learn to manage risk instead of avoiding it.”
 “Balanced people go nowhere. They stay in one spot.”
 “Know a little about a lot.”
 “Life is sometimes tough when you do not fit the standard profile.”
 “An asset is something that puts money in my pocket. A liability is something that takes money out of my pocket.”
 “دائما مايردد راكبو الأمواج"هنالك دوما موجة تاليه" ولكن مالم تهرع صوب الموجه وتحتل متنها أولا، فسوف يتم تنحيتك جانبا.”
 “There is an old cliché that goes: “Job is an acronym for ‘Just Over Broke.”
 “خوف المرء من أن يصير مختلفا، هو ماينمع غالبية الناس من البحث عن سبل جديده لحل مشاكلهم.”
 “In today’s fast-changing world, it’s not so much what you know anymore that counts, because often what you know is old. It is how fast you learn.”
 “It’s not how much money you make. It’s how much money you keep.”
 “Accounting is possibly the most confusing, boring subject in the world, but if you want to be rich long-term, it could be the most important subject.”
 “Cynics criticize, and winners analyze”
 “How can I afford it?” opened up the brain and forced it to think and search for answers.”
 “I recommend to young people to seek work for what they will learn, more than what they will earn. Look down the road at what skills they want to acquire before choosing a specific profession and before getting trapped in the Rat Race.”
 “كلما اشعر بأن الناس توقفت عن الابتسام في وجهي، بادرت أنا بالتبسم في وجوههم وتحيتهم، وكما السحر، تنتشر الابتسامات في كل مكان حولي، فصحيح هو القول بأن العالم ماهو إلا مرآة لك.”
 “Most of the time, life does not talk to you. It just sort of pushes you around.”
 “Great opportunities are not seen with your eyes. They are seen with your mind. Most people never get wealthy simply because they are not trained financially to recognize opportunities right in front of them.”
 “Wealth is a person’s ability to survive so many number of days forward — or, if I stopped working today, how long could I survive?”
 “Life is much like going to the gym. The most painful part is deciding to go. Once you get past that, it’s easy.”
 “يجب أن تفرق انك كلما علمت بمجريات الأمور مبكرا، تحسنت فرصتك في تحقيق ربح أعلى وخوض مخاطره أقل " وهذه فائدة الأصداقاء وذاك هو الذكاء المالي".”
 “Most people have a price. And they have a price because of human emotions named fear and greed. First, the fear of being without money motivates us to work hard, and then once we get that paycheck, greed or desire starts us thinking about all the wonderful things money can buy. A pattern is then set: get up, go to work, pay bills, get up, go to work, pay bills... Their lives are then run forever by two emotions, fear and greed. Offer them more money, and they continue the cycle by also increasing their spending. This is what I call the Rat Race.”
 “Rule One. You must know the difference between an asset and a liability, and buy assets.”
 “أن اغلب الناس يبغون من كل من في الأرض أن يتغيروا إلا انفسهم، وانه من الأيسر لك أن تتغير من نفسك عن ان تغير أحدا.”
 “Being able to know when to make quick decisions is an important skill.”
 “A doctor, wanting more money to better provide for his family, raises his fees. By raising his fees, it makes health care more expensive for everyone. It hurts the poor people the most, so they have worse health than those with money. Because the doctors raise their fees, the attorneys raise their fees. Because the attorneys’ fees have gone up, schoolteachers want a raise, which raises our taxes, and on and on and on. Soon there will be such a horrifying gap between the rich and the poor that chaos will break out and another great civilization will collapse. History proves that great civilizations collapse when the gap between the haves and have-nots is too great.”
 “Sometimes you win and sometimes you learn. But have fun. Most people never win because they’re more afraid of losing.”
 “The single most powerful asset we all have is our mind. If it is trained well, it can create enormous wealth seemingly instantaneously. An untrained mind can also create extreme poverty that can crush a family for generations.”
 “But that is not how life teaches you, and I would say that life is the best teacher of all. Most of the time, life does not talk to you. It just sort of pushes you around. Each push is life saying, ‘Wake up. There’s something I want you to learn.”
 “more money will often not solve the problem. In fact, it may compound the problem. Money often makes obvious our tragic human flaws, putting a spotlight on what we don’t know. That is why, all too often, a person who comes into a sudden windfall of cash—let’s say an inheritance, a pay raise, or lottery winnings—soon returns to the same financial mess, if not worse, than the mess they were in before.”
 “If your financial intelligence is low, money will run all over you. It will be smarter than you. If money is smarter than you, you will work for it all your life.To be the master of money, you need to be smarter than it. Then money will do as it is told. It will obey you. Instead of being a slave to it, you will be the master of it. That is financial intelligence.”
 “Whenever you feel short or need of something, give what you want first, and it will come back in buckets. That is true for money, a smile, love or friendship. I know it is often the last thing a person may do, but it has always worked for me. I trust that the principle of prosperity is true, and I give what I want. I want money, so I give money, and it comes back in multiples. I want sales, so I help someone else sell something, so sales come to me. I want contacts, and I help someone else get contacts. Like magic, contacts come to me. I heard a saying years ago that went: god does not need to receive, but humans need to give. My rich dad would often say: poor people are more greedy than rich people. He would explain that if a person is rich, that person is providing something that other people wanted...whenever I think people aren't smiling at me, I simply began smiling and saying hello. Like magic, the next thing I know: I'm surrounded by smiling people. It is true that you world is only a mirror of you. So that's why I say, teach and you shall receive.”
 “When I ask the classes I teach, “How many of you can cook a better hamburger than McDonald’s?” almost all the students raise their hands. I then ask, “So if most of you can cook a better hamburger, how come McDonald’s makes more money than you?” The”
 “Всеки от нас е получил два безценни дара: ум и време. От вас зависи какво ще направите с тях. Имате силата да определите съдбата си с всяка банкнота, която вземате в ръка. Вие и единствено вие имате властта да го направите. Похарчите ли я глупаво, значи сте избрали да останете бедни. Похарчете я за пасиви и ще се присъедините към редиците на средната класа.Инвестирайте я в ума си и научете как да се сдобивате с активи; в такъв случай сте избрали богатството като ваша цел и бъдеще. Изборът е ваш, само ваш. Всеки ден, с всяка банкнота, вие решавате дали да бъдете в редиците на бедната, средната или богатата класа. Изберете да споделите тези знания с вашите деца и ще сте избрали да ги подготвите за света, който ги чака. Никой друг няма да го направи. Вашето бъдеще и бъдещето на вашите деца се определя от избора ви днес, не утре. Желаем ви голямо богатство и много щастие в този приказен подарък, наречен "живот".”
 “في عالم اليوم سريع التقلب لم يهم ما تعترف به أنت لأنه في الأغلب شئ قد تقادم، بل المهم هو مدى سرعتك في التعلم، فتلك مهاره لاتقدر بثمن.”
 “المهاره الحقيقة، إنما هي في إدارة من هم اكثر منك ذكاء في بعض التخصصات الفنية، وفي البذل لهم بسخاء.”
 “محاكاة وتقليد الأبطال أداة فعاله للتعلم.”
 “امنح مما تملكـ ولسوف يفيض عليك بما فتحت.”
 “Most people never win because they’re more afraid of losing.”
 “Great opportunities are not seen with your eyes. They are seen with your mind.”
 “Busy people are often the most lazy.”
 “في أغلب الوقت لا تتحدث الحياة وإياك، لكنها تدفع بك، في الطريق، وكل دفعة إنما هي بمثابة قول الحياة لكاستيقظ هناك شئ أبغى تعليمك اياه.”
 “إذا أردت تجنب المخاطره وتلافي الخساره، إبدأ مبكرا.”
 “إن الذهب في كل مكان لكن الناس هم الذين لم يتدربوا على العثور عليه.”
 “الشخص الذكي يرحب بالأفكار الجديده لأنها تضيف لزخم افكاره الأخرى.”
 “اقر بأنني سعيت وراء أناس لأنهم يملكون الملايين، ولم أكن اسعى في ذلك وراء أموالهم، بل خبرتهم.”
 “Sometimes you win and sometimes you learn.”
 “Rich people acquire assets. The poor and the middle class acquire liabilities that they think are assets.”
 “Th e three most important management skills necessary to start your own business are management of:1. Cash flow2. People3. Personal time”
 “Всеки път когато усетите, че нещо не ви достига, че се нуждаете от нещо, първо дайте и то ще ви се върне десетократно. Това се отнася както за пари, така и за усмивки, любов, приятелство.”
 “Or if you’re the kind of person who has no guts, you just give up every time life pushes you. If you’re that kind of person, you’ll live all your life playing it safe, doing the right things, saving yourself for some event that never happens. Then you die a boring old man. You’ll have lots of friends who really like you because you were such a nice hardworking guy. But the truth is that you let life push you into submission. Deep down you were terrified of taking risks. You really wanted to win, but the fear of losing was greater than the excitement of winning. Deep inside, you and only you will know you didn’t go for it. You chose to play it safe.”
 “أن لم تكن صلبا من الداخل، فسيتحكم بك العالم من حولك.”
 “One of the reasons the rich get richer, the poor get poorer, and the middle class struggles in debt is because the subject of money is taught at home, not in school. Most of us learn about money from our parents. So what can a poor parent tell their child about money? They simply say "Stay in school and study hard." The child may graduate with excellent grades but with a poor person's financial programming and mind-set. It was learned while the child was young.”
 “دور الأبطال لايقتصر على إلهامنا، إذ أنهم يهونون من طبيعة الأمور، وهذا التهوين هو ما يملؤنا بالرغبة في أن نصير مثلهم.”
 “كل ماعليك هو تحديد ماذا تريد، ثم السعي بعد ذلك لنيله.”
 “I think I have made my message clear. It’s what is in your head that determines what is in your hands.”
 “Does teaching mean talking or a lecture?” rich dad asked. “Well, yes,” I replied. “That’s how they teach you in school,” he said, smiling. “But that is not how life teaches you, and I would say that life is the best teacher of all. Most of the time, life does not talk to you. It just sort of pushes you around. Each push is life saying, ‘Wake up. There’s something I want you to learn.”
 “With small companies, my investment strategy is to be out of the stock in a year. My real estate strategy, on the other hand, is to start small and keep trading the properties up for bigger properties and, therefore, delaying paying taxes on the gain. This allows the value to increase dramatically. I generally hold real estate less than seven years.”
 “Guilt is worse than greed, for guilt robs the body of its soul.”
 “I talk about freedom from the Rat Race, and they focus on toilets. That is the thought pattern that keeps most people poor. They criticize instead of analyze.”
 “The primary difference between a rich person and a poor person is how they manage fear.”
 “The Road Not Taken Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, And sorry I could not travel both And be one traveler, long I stood And looked down one as far as I could To where it bent in the undergrowth; Then took the other, as just as fair, And having perhaps the better claim, Because it was grassy and wanted wear Though as for that the passing there Had worn them really about the same, And both that morning equally lay In leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I kept the first for another day! Yet knowing how way leads onto way, I doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sigh Somewhere ages and ages hence; Two roads diverged in a wood, and I— I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference. And that has made all the difference.”
 “I want you to always think of Mrs. Martin. And I want you always to remember that donkey. Never forget that fear and desire can lead you into life’s biggest trap if you’re not aware of them controlling your thinking. To spend your life living in fear, never exploring your dreams, is cruel. To work hard for money, thinking that it will buy you things that will make you happy is also cruel. To wake up in the middle of the night terrified about paying bills is a horrible way to live. To live a life dictated by the size of a paycheck is not really living a life. Thinking that a job makes you secure is lying to yourself. That’s cruel, and that’s the trap I want you to avoid. I’ve seen how money runs people’s lives. Don’t let that happen to you. Please don’t let money run your life.”
 “Land was wealth 300 years ago. So the person who owned the land owned the wealth. Then, it was factories and production, and America rose to dominance. The industrialist owned the wealth. Today, it is information. And the person who has the most timely information owns the wealth.”
 “Job is an acronym for ‘Just Over Broke.”
 “There is a difference between being poor and being broke. Broke is temporary. Poor is eternal.” My”
 “The ability to sell—to communicate to another human being, be it a customer, employee, boss, spouse, or child—is the base skill of personal success.”
 “For winners, losing inspires them. For losers, losing defeats them.”
 “The main reason that over 90 percent of the American public struggles financially is because they play not to lose. They don’t play to win.”
 “Most people want everyone else in the world to change but themselves.”
 “•    Finding a good deal, the right business, the right people, the right investors, or whatever is just like dating. You must go to the market and talk to a lot of people, make a lot of offers, counteroffers, negotiate, reject, and accept.”
 “They spend their lives minding someone else’s business and making that person rich.”
 “When you know you are ignorant in a subject, start educating yourself by finding an expert in the field or a book on the subject.”
 “The real skill is to manage and reward the people who are smarter than you in some technical area. That is why companies have a board of directors.”
 “If you work for money, you give the power to you employer. If money works for you, you keep the power and control it.”
 “I always tried to turn every disaster into an opportunity.”
 “One dad recommended, “Study hard so you can find a good company to work for.” The other recommended, “Study hard so you can find a good company to buy.”
 “Haz lo que tu corazón te diga que es lo correcto porque de todas formas te van a criticar. Mal si lo haces y mal si no lo haces.”
 “هناك فرق بين كون المرء معوزا، وبين تعرضه لأزمه ماليه، فالأزمات وقتيه، أما الفقر فأبدي.”
 “He understood that every person has a weak and needy part of their soul that can be bought, and he knew that every individual also had a part of their soul that was resilient and could never be bought. It was only a question of which one was stronger.”
 “Study hard so you can find a good company to buy.”
