 “I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of any thing than of a book! -- When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library.”
 “A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony in a moment.”
 “It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.”
 “There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense.”
 “Angry people are not always wise.”
 “I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look or the words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I knew that I had begun.”
 “Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.”
 “What are men to rocks and mountains?”
 “There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others. My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me.”
 “I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine.”
 “I must learn to be content with being happier than I deserve.”
 “I have not the pleasure of understanding you.”
 “You are too generous to trifle with me. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once. My affections and wishes are unchanged; but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.”
 “I am the happiest creature in the world. Perhaps other people have said so before, but not one with such justice. I am happier even than Jane; she only smiles, I laugh.”
 “To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love”
 “From the very beginning— from the first moment, I may almost say— of my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable a dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.”
 “For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbors, and laugh at them in our turn?”
 “You must learn some of my philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you pleasure.”
 “We are all fools in love”
 “I have faults enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I dare not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little yielding— certainly too little for the convenience of the world. I cannot forget the follies and vices of other so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself. My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them. My temper would perhaps be called resentful. My good opinion once lost, is lost forever.”
 “An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth. From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.”
 “We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.”
 “Till this moment I never knew myself.”
 “He is a gentleman, and I am a gentleman's daughter. So far we are equal.”
 “My good opinion once lost is lost forever.”
 “A girl likes to be crossed a little in love now and then.It is something to think of”
 “There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.""And your defect is a propensity to hate everybody.""And yours," he replied with a smile, "is wilfully to misunderstand them.”
 “Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her.”
 “You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you.-Mr. Darcy”
 “The distance is nothing when one has a motive.”
