 “We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with someone new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything - what a waste!”
 “I'm like you,' he said. 'I remember everything.'I stopped for a second. If you remember everything, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you’re just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there’s not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name”
 “We had the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “He came. He left. Nothing else had changed. I had not changed. The world hadn't changed. Yet nothing would be the same. All that remains is dreammaking and strange remembrance.”
 “People who read are hiders. They hide who they are. People who hide don’t always like who they are.”
 “Is it better to speak or die?”
 “If I could have him like this in my dreams every night of my life, I'd stake my entire life on dreams and be done with the rest.”
 “And on that evening when we grow older still we'll speak about these two young men as though they were two strangers we met on the train and whom we admire and want to help along. And we'll want to call it envy, because to call it regret would break our hearts.”
 “Most of us can't help but live as though we've got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there's only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it. Right now there's sorrow. I don't envy the pain. But I envy you the pain. (p. 225)”
 “I suddenly realized that we were on borrowed time, that time is always borrowed, and that the lending agency exacts its premium precisely when we are least prepared to pay and need to borrow more...”
 “We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with someone new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything—what a waste!”
 “Call me by your name and I'll call you by mine.”
 “We are not written for one instrument alone; I am not, neither are you.”
 “Did I want him to act? Or would I prefer a lifetime of longing provided we both kept this little Ping-Pong game going: not knowing, not-not-knowing, not-not-not-knowing? Just be quiet, say nothing, and if you can't say "yes," don't say "no," say "later." Is this why people say "maybe" when they mean "yes," but hope you'll think it's "no" when all they really mean is, Please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “Maybe it was the alcohol, maybe it was the truth, maybe I didn't want things to turn abstract, but I felt I should say it, because this was the moment to say it, because it suddenly dawned on me that this was why I had come, to tell him 'You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist.”
 “Time makes us sentimental. Perhaps, in the end, it is because of time that we suffer.”
 “Twenty years was yesterday, and yesterday was just earlier this morning, and morning seemed light-years away.”
 “Everyone goes through a period of Traviamento - when we take, say, a different turn in life, the other via. Dante himself did. Some recover, some pretend to recover, some never come back, some chicken out before even starting, and some, for fear of taking any turns, find themselves leading the wrong life all life long.”
 “Every time I go back to Rome, I go back to that one spot. It is still alive for me, still resounds with something totally present, as though a heart stolen from a tale by Poe still throbbed under the ancient slate pavement to remind me that, here, I had finally encountered the life that was right for me but had failed to have.”
 “I may have come close, but I never had what you had. Something always held me back or stood in the way. How you live your life is your business. But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can't help but live as though we've got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there's only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it. Right now there's sorrow. I don't envy the pain. But I envy you the pain.”
 “I'm not wise at all. I told you, I know nothing. I know books, and I know how to string words together--it doesn't mean I know how to speak about the tings that matter most to me.""But you're doing it now--in a way.""Yes, in a way--that's how I always say things: in a way.”
 “You'll kill me if you stop.”
 “Perhaps we were friends first and lovers second. But then perhaps this is what lovers are.”
 “They are embossed on every song that was a hit that summer, in every novel I read during and after his stay, on anything from the smell of rosemary on hot days to the frantic rattle of the cicadas in the afternoon—smells and sounds I’d grown up with and known every year of my life until then but that had suddenly turned on me and acquired an inflection forever colored by the events of that summer.”
 “Zwischen Immer und Nie. Zwischen Immer und Nie. Between always and never.”
 “Over the years I'd lodged him in the permanent past, my pluperfect lover, put him on ice, stuffed him with memories and mothballs like a hunted ornament confabulating with the ghost of all my evenings. I'd dust him off from time to time and then put him back on the mantelpiece. He no longer belonged to earth or to life. All I was likely to discover at this point wasn't just how distant were the paths we'd taken, it was the measure of loss that was going to strike me--a loss I didn't mind thinking about in abstract terms but which would hurt when stared at in the face, the way nostalgia hurts long after we've stopped thinking of things we lost and may never have cared for.”
 “We belonged to each other, but had lived so far apart that we belonged to others now.”
 “If he knew, if he only knew that I was giving him every chance to put two and two together and come up with a number bigger than infinity.”
 “Whoever said the soul and the body met in the pineal gland was a fool. It's the asshole, stupid.”
 “Later that evening in my diary, I wrote: I was exagerrating when I said I thought you hated the piece. What I meant to say was: I thought you hated me. I was hoping you’d persuade me of the opposite—and you did, for a while. Why won’t I believe it tomorrow morning?”
 “At one hundred, surely you learn to overcome loss and grief—or do they hound you till the bitter end?”
 “Fear not. It will come. At least I hope it does. And when you least expect it. Nature has cunning ways of finding our weakest spot.”
 “I wanted him dead too, so that if I couldn't stop thinking about him and worrying about when would be the next time I'd see him, at least his death would put an end to it. I wanted to kill him myself, even, so as to let him know how much his mere existence had come to bother me, how unbearable his ease with everything and everyone, taking all things in stride, his tireless I'm-okay-with-this-and-that, his springing across the gate to the beach when everyone else opened the latch first, to say nothing of his bathings suits, his spot in paradise, his cheeky Later!, his lip-smacking love for apricot juice. If I didn't kill him, then I'd cripple him for life, so that he'd be with us in a wheelchair and never go back to the States. If he were in a wheelchair, I would always know where he was, and he'd be easy to find. I would feel superior to him and become his master, now that he was crippled.Then it hit me that I could have killed myself instead, or hurt myself badly enough and let him know why I'd done it. If I hurt my face, I'd want him to look at me and wonder why, why might anyone do this to himself, until, years and years later--yes, Later!--he'd finally piece the puzzle together and beat his head against the wall.”
 “I believe with every cell in my body that every cell in yours must not, must never, die, and if it does have to die, let it die inside my body.”
 “There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is thoroughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well. Amor ch’a null’amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who’s loved from loving, Francesca’s words in the Inferno. Just wait and be hopeful. I was hopeful, though perhaps this was what I had wanted all along. To wait forever. ”
 “I’m not wise at all. I told you, I know nothing. I know books, and I know how to string words together—it doesn’t mean I know how to speak about the things that matter most to me.”
 “Cor cordium, heart of hearts, I’ve never said anything truer in my life to anyone.”
 “Do I like you?’ I wanted to sound incredulous, as though to question how he could ever have doubted such a thing. But then I thought better of it and was on the point of softening the tone of my answer with a meaning-fully evasive Perhaps that was supposed to mean Abso-lutely, when I let my tongue loose: ‘Do I like you, Oliver? I worship you.”
 “What I wanted to preserve was the turbulent gasp in his voice which lingered with me for days afterward and told me that, if I could have him like this in my dreams every night of my life, I'd stake my entire life on dreams and be done with the rest. (p. 109)”
 “If there is any truth in the world, it lies when I'm with you, and if I find the courage to speak my truth to you one day, remind me to light a candle in thanksgiving at every altar in Rome.”
 “What is life without this? which was why, in the end, it was I, and not her, who blurted out, not once, but many, many times, You'll kill me if you stop, you'll kill me if you stop, because it was also my way of bringing full circle the dream and the fantasy, me and him, the longed-for words from mouth to mouth, which was when I must have begun using obscenities that he repeated after me, softly at first, till he said, "Call me by your name and I'll call you by my name," which I'd never done in my life before and which, as soon as I said my own name as though it were his, took me to a realm I never shared with anyone in my life before, or since.”
 “Then I thought of the drive back, late at night, along the starlit river to this rickety antique New England hotel on a shoreline that I hoped would remind us both of the bay of B., and of Van Gogh's starry nights, and of the night I joined him on the rock and kissed him on the neck, and of the last night when we walked together on the coast road, sensing we'd run out of last-minute miracles to put off his leaving. I imagined being in his car asking myself, Who knows, would I want to, would he want to, perhaps a nightcap at the bar would decide, knowing that, all through dinner that evening, he and I would be worrying about the same exact thing, hoping it might happen, praying it might not, perhaps a nightcap would decide - I could just read it on his face as I pictured him looking away while uncorking a bottle of wine or while changing the music, because he too would catch the thought racing through my mind and want me to know he was debating the exact same thing, because, as he'd pour the wine for his wife, for me, for himself, it would finally dawn on us both that he was more me than I had ever been myself, because when he became me and I became him in bed so many years ago, he was and would forever remain, long after every forked road in life had done its work, my brother, my friend, my father, my son, my husband, my lover, myself. In the weeks we'd been thrown together that summer, our lives had scarcely touched, but we had crossed to the other bank, where time stops and heaven reaches down to earth and gives us that ration of what is from birth divinely ours. We looked the other way. We spoke of everything but. But we've always known, and not saying anything now confirmed it all the more. We had found the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “Or are "being" and "having" thoroughly inaccurate verbs in the twisted skein of desire, where having someone's body to touch and being that someone we're longing to touch are one and the same, just opposite banks on a river that passes from us to them, back to us and over to them again in this perpetual circuit where the chambers of the heart, like the trapdoors of desire, and the wormholes of time, and the false-bottomed drawer we call identity share a beguiling logic according to which the shortest distance between real life and the life unlived, between who we are and what we want, is a twisted staircase designed with the impish cruelty of M. C. Escher.”
 “In the weeks we’d been thrown together that summer, our lives had scarcely touched, but we had crossed to the other bank, where time stops and heaven reaches down to earth and gives us that ration of what is from birth divinely ours. We looked the other way. We spoke about everything but. But we’ve always known, and not saying anything now confirmed it all the more. We had found the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “If there is any truth in the world, it lies when I’m with you.”
 “I wanted to hear his window open, hear his espadrilles on the balcony, and then the sound of my own window, which was never locked, being pushed open as he'd step into my room after everyone had gone to bed, slip under my covers, undress me without asking, and after making me want him more than I thought I could ever want another living soul, gently, softly, and, with the kindness one Jew extends to another, work his way into my body, gently and softly, after heeding the words I'd been rehearsing for days now, Please, don't hurt me, which meant, Hurt me all you want.”
 “I wish I had one friend I wasn’t destined to lose.”
 “In your place, if there is pain, nurse it, and if there is a flame, don’t snuff it out, don’t be brutal with it. Withdrawal can be a terrible thing when it keeps us awake at night, and watching others forget us sooner than we’d want to be forgotten is no better. We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with someone new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything — what a waste!”
 “This was the best person I’d ever known in my life. I had chosen him well.”
 “Wanting to test desire is nothing more than a ruse to get what we want without admitting that we want it.”
 “Something unexpected seemed to clear away between us, and, for a second, it seemed there was absolutely no difference in age between us, just two men kissing, and even this seemed to dissolve, as I began to feel we were not even two men, just two beings.”
 “Do you really like to read that much?” she asked as we ambled our way casually in the dark toward the piazzetta. I looked at her as if she had asked me if I loved music, or bread and salted butter, or ripe fruit in the summertime. “Don’t get me wrong,” she said. “I like to read too. But I don’t tell anyone.” At last, I thought, someone who speaks the truth. I asked her why she didn’t tell anyone. “I don’t know…” This was more her way of asking for time to think or to hedge before answering, “People who read are hiders. They hide who they are. People who hide don’t always like who they are.” “Do you hide who you are?” “Sometimes. Don’t you?” “Do I? I suppose.”
 “What is life without this? which was why, in the end, it was I, and not he, who blurted out, not once, but many, many times, You'll kill me if you stop, because it was also my way of bringing full circle the dream and the fantasy, me and him, the longed-for words from his mouth to my mouth back into his mouth, swapping words from mouth to mouth, which was when I must have begun using obscenities that he repeated after me, softly at first, till he said, "Call me by your name and I'll call you by mine" ...”
 “How I admired people who talked about their vices as though they were distant relatives they'd learn to put up with because they couldn't quite disown them.”
 “Let’s go now.” He extended his hand to help me get up. I grabbed it and, turning on my side facing the wall away from him to prevent him from seeing me, I asked, “Must we?” This was the closest I would ever come to saying, Stay. Just stay with me.”
 “The light of my eyes, I said, light of my eyes, light of the world, that's what you are, light of my life. I didn't know what light of my eyes meant, and part of me wondered where on earth had I fished out such claptrap, but it was nonsense like this that brought tears now, tears I wished to down in his pillow, soak in his bathing suit, tears I wanted him to touch with the tip of his tongue and make sorrow go away.”
 “Don’t let him be someone else when he’s away. Don’t let him be someone I’ve never seen before. Don’t let him have a life other than the life I know he has with us, with me.”
 “Think of the pain before the pain.”
 “I stopped for a second. If you remember everything, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you're just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there's not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in just, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “I'm not sure I want to go ahead with this, but I need to know, and better with you than anyone else. I want to know your body, I want to know how you feel, I want to know you, and through you, me.”
 “He was my secret conduit to myself—like a catalyst that allows us to become who we are, the foreign body, the pacer, the graft, the patch that sends all the right impulses, the steel pin that keeps a soldier’s bone together, the other man’s heart that makes us more us than we were before the transplant.”
 “And on that evening when we grow older still we'll speak about these two young men as though they were two strangers we met on the train and whom we admire and want to help along. And we'll want to call it envy, because to call it regret would break our hearts.'Silence again.'Perhaps I am not yet ready to speak of them as strangers,' I said.'If it makes you feel any better, I don't think either of us ever will be.”
 “It never occurred to me that I had brought him here not just to show him my little world, but to ask my little world to let him in, so that the place where I came to be alone on summer afternoons would get to know him, judge him, see if he fitted in, take him in, so that I might come back here and remember. Here I would come to escape the known world and seek another of my own invention; I was basically introducing him to my launchpad.”
 “To me those hours spent at that round wooden table in our garden with the large umbrella imperfectly shading my papers, the chinking of our iced lemonades, the sound of the not-too-distant surf gently lapping the giant rocks below, and in the background, from some neighboring house, the muffled crackle of the hit parade medley on perpetual replay—all these are forever impressed on those mornings when all I prayed for was for time to stop. Let summer never end, let him never go away, let the music on perpetual replay play forever, I’m asking for very little, and I swear I’ll ask for nothing more.”
 “This was a time when I intentionally failed to drop bread crumbs for my return journey; instead, I ate them.”
 “I had rehearsed losing him not just to ward off suffering by taking it in small doses beforehand, but, as all superstitious people do, to see if my willingness to accept the very worst might not induce fate to soften its blow.”
 “What did one do around here?Nothing. Wait for summer to end. What did one do in the winter, then? I smiled at the answer I was about to give. He got the gist and said, 'Don't tell me: wait for summer to come, right?”
 “What did you write on the back of the postcard?”“It was going to be a surprise.”“I’m too old for surprises. Besides, surprises always come with a sharp edge that is meant to hurt. I don’t want to be hurt—not by you. Tell me.”“Just two words.”“Let me guess: If not later, when?”“Two words, I said. Besides, that would be cruel.”I thought for a while.“I give up.”“Cor cordium, heart of hearts, I’ve never said anything truer in my life to anyone.”
 “I began reluctantly to steal from the present to pay off debts I knew I'd incur in the future.”
 “Call me by your name and I’ll call you by mine,” which I’d never done in my life before and which, as soon as I said my own name as though it were his, took me to a realm I never shared with anyone in my life before, or since.”
 “Does the presence of the other, who yesterday morning felt almost like and intruder, become ever more necessary because it shields us from our own hell--so that the very person who causes our torment by daybreak is the same who'll relieve it at night?”
 “Come, I'll take you to San Giacomo before you change your mind,' I finally said. 'There is still time before lunch. Remember the way?''I remember the way.''You remember the way,' I echoed.He looked at me and smiled. It cheered me. Perhaps because I knew he was taunting me.Twenty years was yesterday, and yesterday was just earlier this morning, and morning seemed light-years away.'I'm like you,' he said. 'I remember everything.'I stopped for a second. If you remember everything, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you're just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there's not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “I can, from the distance of years now, still think I’m hearing the voices of two young men singing these words in Neapolitan toward daybreak, neither realizing, as they held each other and kissed again and again on the dark lanes of old Rome, that this was the last night they would ever make love again. “Tomorrow let’s go to San Clemente,” I said. “Tomorrow is today,” he replied.”
 “...you and I , when the night is spread out against the sky, and read stories of restless people who always end up alone and hate being alone because it's always themselves they can't stand being alone with...”
 “It would never have occurred to him that in placing the apricot in my palm he was giving me his ass to hold or that, in biting the fruit, I was also biting into that part of his body that must have been fairer than the rest because it never apricates - and near it, if I dared to bite that far, his apricock.”
 “You are the only person I’d like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist. Sometimes I have this awful picture of waking up in our house in B. and, looking out to the sea, hearing the news from the waves themselves, He died last night. We missed out on so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours.”
 “how we move through time, how time moves through us, how we change and keep changing and come back to the same. One could even grow old and not learn a thing but this.”
 “You’re too smart not to know how rare, how special, what you two had was.”
 “Look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “What does this say about the life you've lived, then?''Part of it— just part of it —was a coma, but I prefer to call it a parallel life. It sounds better. Problem is that most of us have— live, that is—more than two parallel lives.”
 “I was going for the devious smile that would suddenly light up his face each time he'd read my mind, when all I really wanted was skin, just skin.”
 “How wonderful, to walk half drunk with a Lemonsoda on a muggy night like this around the gleaming slate cobblestones of Rome with someone's arm around me.”
 “You could have had this instead. But going back is false. Moving ahead is false. Looking the other way is false. Trying to redress all that is false turns out to be just as false. ”
 “What I didn’t realize was that wanting to test desire is nothing more than a ruse to get what we want without admitting that we want it.”
 “Today, the pain, the stoking, the thrill of someone new, the promise of so much bliss hovering a fingertip away, the fumbling around people I might have misread and don't want to lose and must second-guess at every turn, the desperate cunning I bring to everyone I want and crave to be wanted by, the screens I put up as though between me and the world there were not just one but layers of rice-paper sliding doors, the urge to scramble and unscramble what was never really coded in the first place - all these started the summer Oliver came into our house. They are embossed on every song that was a hit that summer, in every novel I read during and after his stay, on anything from the smell of rosemary on hot days to the frantic rattle of the cicadas in the afternoon - smells and sounds I'd grown up with and known every year of my life until then but that had suddenly turned on me and acquired an inflection forever colored by the events of that summer.”
 “I looked away, because he was staring at me, and I knew I was flushed, and I knew I'd made a face, though I still wanted him to stare at me even if it embarrassed me, and I wanted to keep staring at him too...”
 “Just take me and molt me and turn me inside out, till, like a character in Ovid, I become one with your lust, that’s what I wanted. Give me a blindfold, hold my hand, and don’t ask me to think—will you do that for me?”
 “I suddenly realized that we were on borrowed time, that time is always borrowed, and that the lending agency exacts its premium precisely when we are least prepared to pay and need to borrow more.”
 “As I sat there working on transcriptions at my round table in the morning, what I would have settled for was not his friendship, not anything. Just to look up and find him there, suntan lotion, straw hat, red bathing suit, lemonade. To look up and find you there, Oliver. For the day will come soon enough when I’ll look up and you’ll no longer be there.”
 “Oliver was Oliver,' I said, as if that summed things up.'Parce que c'était lui, parce que c'était moi,' my father added, quoting Montaigne's all-encompassing explanation for his friendship with Etienne de la Boétie.I was thinking, instead, of Emily Brontë's words: because 'he's more myself than I am.”
 “Is it better to speak or die?” I’d never even have the courage to ask such a question.”
 “Was our intimacy paid for in the wrong currency? Or is intimacy the desired product no matter where you find it, how you acquire it, what you pay for it, black market, grey market, taxed, untaxed, under the table, over the counter.”
 “Nonsense. I wanted you from day one. I just hid it better.”
 “Next to it on the wall was a framed postcard of Monet's berm. I recognized it immediately.'It used to be mine, but you've owned it far, far longer than I have.' We belonged to each other, but had lived so far apart that we belonged to others now. Squatters, and only squatters, were the true claimants to our lives.”
 “The thud my heart gave when I saw him unannounced both terrified and thrilled me. I was afraid when he showed up, afraid when he failed to, afraid when he looked at me, more frightened yet when he didn’t.”
 “Maybe it was the alcohol, maybe it was the truth, maybe I didn't want things to turn abstract, but I felt I should say it, because this was the moment to say it, because it suddenly dawned on me that this was why I had come, to tell him 'You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist. Sometimes I have this awful picture of waking up in our house in B. and, looking out to the sea, hearing the news from the waves themselves, He died last night. We missed out on so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours. Pardon, I didn't mean to offend—I am sure yours is no coma.''No, a parallel life.”
 “And why wouldn't I show him how like butter I was? Because I was afraid of what might happen then? Or was I afraid he would have laughed at me, told everyone, or ignored the whole thing on the pretext I was too young to know what I was doing? Or was it because if he so much as suspected - and anyone who suspected would of necessity be on the same wavelength - he might be tempted to act on it? Did I want him to act? Or would I prefer a lifetime of longing provided we both kept this little Ping-Pong game going: not knowing, not-not knowing, not-not-not knowing? Just be quiet, say nothing, and if you can't say 'yes,' don't say 'no,' say 'later.' Is this why people say 'maybe' when they mean 'yes,' but hope you'll think it's a 'no' when all they really mean is, Please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “From this moment on, I thought, from this moment on—I had, as I’d never before in my life, the distinct feeling of arriving somewhere very dear, of wanting this forever, of being me, me, me, me, and no one else, just me, of finding in each shiver that ran down my arms something totally alien and yet by no means unfamiliar, as if all this had been part of me all of my life and I’d misplaced it and he had helped me find it. The dream had been right—this was like coming home, like asking, Where have I been all my life? which was another way of asking, Where were you in my childhood, Oliver?”
 “Did I want to be like him? Did I want to be him? Or did I just want to have him? Or are “being” and “having” thoroughly inaccurate verbs in the twisted skein of desire, where having someone’s body to touch and being that someone we’re longing to touch are one and the same, just opposite banks on a river that passes from us to them, back to us and over to them again in this perpetual circuit where the chambers of the heart, like the trapdoors of desire, and the wormholes of time, and the false-bottomed drawer we call identity share a beguiling logic according to which the shortest distance between real life and the life unlived, between who we are and what we want, is a twisted staircase designed with the impish cruelty of M. C. Escher.”
 “Oh, Oliver, I said to myself on my way to the kitchen for a quick bite to eat, I’ll do anything for you. I’ll ride up the hill with you, and I’ll race you up the road to town, and won’t point out the sea when we reach the berm, and I’ll wait at the bar in the piazzetta while you meet with your translator, and I’ll touch the memorial to the unknown soldier who died on the Piave, and I won’t utter a word, I’ll show you the way to the bookstore, and we’ll park our bikes outside the shop and go in together and leave together, and I promise, I promise, I promise, there’ll be no hint of Shelley, or Monet, nor will I ever stoop to tell you that two nights ago you added an annual ring to my soul.”
 “And we'll want to call it envy, because to call it regret would break our hearts.”
 “What if it came and didn’t let go, a sorrow that had come to stay, and did to me what longing for him had done on those nights when it seemed there was something so essential missing from my life that it might as well have been missing from my body, so that losing him now would be like losing a hand you could spot in every picture of yourself around the house, but without which you couldn’t possibly be you again. You lose it, as you always knew you would, and were even prepared to; but you can’t bring yourself to live with the loss. And hoping not to think of it, like praying not to dream of it, hurts just the same.”
 “What had been in my head for so long would now be out in the real world, no longer afloat in my foreverland of ambiguities.”
 “There are easy ways to bring back summer in the snowstorm”
 “People who read are hiders. They hide who they are. People who hide don't always like who they are.”
 “How is it that some people go through hell trying to get close to you, while you haven’t the haziest notion and don’t even give them a thought when two weeks go by and you haven’t so much as exchanged a single word between you? Did he have any idea? Should I let him know?”
 “We walked down the back stairwell into the garden where the old breakfast table used to be. 'This was my father's spot. I call it his ghost spot. My spot used to be over there, if you remember.' I pointed to where my old table used to stand by the pool.'Did I have a spot?' he asked with a half grin.'You'll always have a spot.'I wanted to tell him that the pool, the garden, the house, the tennis court, the orle of paradise, the whole place, would always be his ghost spot. Instead, I pointed upstairs to the French windows of his room. Your eyes are forever there, I wanted to say, trapped in the sheer curtains, staring out from my bedroom upstairs where no one sleeps these days. When there's a breeze and they swell and I look up from down here or stand outside on the balcony, I'll catch myself thinking that you're in there, staring out from your world to my world, saying, as you did on that one night when I found you on the rock, I've been happy here. You're thousands of miles away but no sooner do I look at this window than I'll think of a bathing suit, a shirt thrown on on the fly, arms resting on the banister, and you're suddenly there, lighting up your first cigarette of the day—twenty years ago today. For as long as the house stands, this will be your ghost spot—and mine too, I wanted to say.”
 “I then asked his assistant for a pen, opened up the hardbound edition, and wrote, Zwischen Immer und Nie, for you in silence, somewhere in Italy in the mid-eighties. In years to come, if the book was still in his possession, I wanted him to ache.”
 “This felt special. Like showing someone your private chapel, your secret haunt, the place where, as with the berm, one comes to be alone, to dream of others. This is where I dreamed of you before you came into my life.”
 “Two words from him, and I had seen my pouting apathy change into I’ll play anything for you till you ask me to stop, till it’s time for lunch, till the skin on my fingers wears off layer after layer, because I like doing things for you, will do anything for you, just say the word, I liked you from day one, and even when you'll return ice for my renewed offers of friendship, I'll never forget that this conversation occurred between us and that there are easy ways to bring back summer in a snowstorm.What I forgot to earmark in that promise was that ice and apathy have ways of instantly repealing all truces and resolutions signed in sunnier moments.”
 “We had never taken a shower together. We had never even been in the same bathroom together. "Don't flush," I'd said, "I want to look." What I saw brought out strains of compassion, for him, for his body, for his life, which suddenly seemed so frail and vulnerable. "Our bodies won't have secrets now," I said as I took my turn and sat down. He had hopped into the bathtub and was just about to turn on the shower. "I want you to see mine," I said. He did more. He stepped out, kissed me on the mouth, and, pressing and massaging my tummy with the flat of his hand, watched the whole thing happen.”
 “I had rehearsed losing him not just to ward off suffering by taking it in small doses beforehand; but, as all superstitious people do, to see if my willingness to accept the very worst might induce fate to soften its blow. Like soldiers trained to fight by night, I lived in the dark so as not to be blinded when darkness came.”
 “I know books, and I know how to string words together—it doesn’t mean I know how to speak about the things that matter most to me.”
 “Shame cast long shadows”
 “Do with me what you want. Take me. Just ask if I want to and see the answer you’ll get, just don’t let me say no. And”
 “And like the old men who sat around the piazzetta facing the Piave memorial, we’ll speak about two young men who found much happiness for a few weeks and lived the remainder of their lives dipping cotton swabs into that bowl of happiness, fearing they’d use it up, without daring to drink more than a thimbleful on ritual anniversaries.”
 “I wish I could be with you all,' I responded, getting all worked up myself over someone I had almost entirely stopped thinking about. Time makes us sentimental. Perhaps, in the end, it is because of time that we suffer.”
 “I want to know your body, I want to know how you feel, I want to know you, and through you, me.”
 “You never did forgive me, did you?''Forgive? There was nothing to forgive. If anything, I'm grateful for everything. I remember good things only.'I had heard people say this in movies. They seemed to believe it.”
 “You lose it, as you always knew you would, and were even prepared to; but you can't bring yourself to live with the loss. And hoping not to think of it, like praying not to dream of it, hurts just the same.”
 “No one likes being alone. But I’ve learned how to live with it.”
 “I was going to walk him outside the hotel lobby and then stand and watch him go. Any moment now we were going to say goodbye. Suddenly part of my life was going to be taken away from me now and would never be given back.”
 “Amor ch’a null’amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who’s loved from loving, Francesca”
 “This is like coming home, like coming home after years away among Trojans and Lestrygonians, like coming home to a place where everyone is like you, where people know, they just know—coming home as when everything falls into place and you suddenly realize that for seventeen years all you’d been doing was fiddling with the wrong combination.”
 “On my way up the staircase, I tried to imagine myself coming down this very same staircase tomorrow morning. By then I might be someone else. Did I even like this someone else whom I didn’t yet know and who might not want to say good morning then or have anything to do with me for having brought him to this pass? Or would I remain the exact same person walking up this staircase, with nothing about me changed, and not one of my doubts resolved?”
 “If not later, when?” My father liked it. “If not later, when?” It echoed Rabbi Hillel’s famous injunction, “If not now, when?”
 “But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything – what a waste!”
 “Perhaps it never went away.”
 “But I was in heaven. That he hadn’t forgotten our conversation about Celan gave me a shot of tonic I hadn’t experienced in many, many days. It spilled over everything I touched. Just a word, a gaze, and I was in heaven. To be happy like this maybe wasn’t so difficult after all. All I had to do was find the source of happiness in me and not rely on others to supply it the next time.”
 “For weeks I had mistaken his stare for barefaced hostility. I was wide of the mark. It was simply a shy man's way of holding someone else's gaze.We were, it finally dawned on me, the two shyest persons in the world.”
 “I didn’t know what I was afraid of, nor why I worried so much, nor why this thing that could so easily cause panic felt like hope sometimes and, like hope in the darkest moments, brought such joy, unreal joy, joy with a noose tied around it.”
 “We had found the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “It never occurred to me that what had totally panicked me when he touched me was exactly what startles virgins on being touched for the very first time by the person they desire: he stirs nerves in them they never knew existed and that produce far, far more disturbing pleasures than they are used to on their own.”
 “I'm not wise at all. I told you, I know nothing. I know books, and I know how to string words together - it doesn't mean I know how to speak about the things that matter most to me.”
 “We may never speak about this again. But I hope you’ll never hold it against me that we did. I will have been a terrible father if, one day, you’d want to speak to me and felt that the door was shut or not sufficiently open.”
 “But it might have started way later than I think without my noticing anything at all. You see someone, but you don’t really see him, he’s in the wings. Or you notice him, but nothing clicks, nothing “catches,” and before you’re even aware of a presence, or of something troubling you, the six weeks that were offered you have almost passed and he’s either already gone or just about to leave, and you’re basically scrambling to come to terms with something, which, unbeknownst to you, has been brewing for weeks under your very nose and bears all the symptoms of what you’re forced to call I want.”
 “All these years, whenever I thought of him, I'd think either of B. or of our last days in Rome, the whole thing leading up to two scenes: the balcony with its attendant agonies and via Santa Maria dell' Anima, where he'd pushed me against the old wall and kissed me and in the end let me put one leg around his. Every time I go back to Rome, I go back to that one spot. It is still alive for me, still resounds with something totally present, as though a heart stolen from a tale by Poe still throbbed under the ancient slate pavement to remind me that, here, I had finally encountered the life that was right for me but had failed to have.”
 “I was treading water, trying neither to drown nor to swim to safety, just staying in place, because here was the truth - even if I couldn't speak the truth, or even hint at it, yet I could swear it lay around us, the way we say of a necklace we've just lost while swimming: I know it's down there somewhere. If he knew, if he only knew that I was giving him every chance to put two and two together and come up with a number bigger than infinity.”
 “Just be quiet, say nothing, and if you can't say "yes," don't say "no," say "later." Is this why people say "maybe" when they mean "yes," but hope you'll think it's "no" when all they really mean is, Please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “Don't let me lose him.”
 “Was he my home, then, my homecoming? You are my homecoming. When I’m with you and we’re well together, there is nothing more I want. You make me like who I am, who I become when you’re with me,”
 “I wish I knew how to calibrate my kiss the way he did but passion allows us to hide more.”
 “Do I like you?’ I wanted to sound incredulous, as though to question how he could ever have doubted such a thing. But then I thought better of it and was on the point of softening the tone of my answer with a meaningfully evasive Perhaps that was supposed to mean Absolutely, when I let my tongue loose: ‘Do I like you, Oliver? I worship you.”
 “But I wasn’t fooling myself. I was convinced that no one in the world wanted him as physically as I did; nor was anyone willing to go the distance I was prepared to travel for him. No one had studied every bone in his body, ankles, knees, wrists, fingers, and toes, no one lusted after every ripple of muscle, no one took him to bed every night and on spotting him in the morning lying in his heaven by the pool, smiled at him, watched a smile come to his lips, and thought, Did you know I came in your mouth last night?”
 “Perhaps the physical and the metaphorical meanings are clumsy ways of understanding what happens when two beings need, not just to be close together, but to become so totally ductile that each becomes the other. To be who I am because of you. To be who he was because of me. To be in his mouth while he was in mine and no longer know whose it was, his cock or mine, that was in my mouth. He was my secret conduit to myself—like a catalyst that allows us to become who we are, the foreign body, the pacer, the graft, the patch that sends all the right impulses, the steel pin that keeps a soldier’s bone together, the other man’s heart that makes us more us than we were before the transplant.”
 “What lies ahead is going to be very difficult. Fear not. It will come. At least I hope it does. And when you least expect it. Nature has its cunning way of finding our weakest spot.”
 “Oliver liked to keep the windows and shutters wide open in the afternoon, with just the swelling sheer curtains between us and life beyond, because it was a 'crime' to block away so much sunlight and keep such a landscape from view, especially when you didn't have it all life long, he said. Then the rolling fields of the valley leading up to the hills seemed to sit in a rising mist of olive green: sunflowers, grapevines, swatches of lavender, and those squat and humble olive trees stooping like gnarled, aged scarecrows gawking through our window as we lay naked on my bed, the smell of his sweat, which was the smell of my sweat, and next to me my man-woman whose man-woman I was, and all around us Mafalda's chamomile-scented laundry detergent, which was the torrid afternoon world of our house.”
 “For the day will come soon enough when I’ll look up and you’ll no longer be there.”
 “And yet, about two weeks after his arrival, all I wanted every night was for him to leave his room, not via its front door, but through the French windows on our balcony. I wanted to hear his window open, hear his espadrilles on the balcony, and then the sound of my own window, which was never locked, being pushed open as he’d step into my room after everyone had gone to bed, slip under my covers, undress me without asking, and after making me want him more than I thought I could ever want another living soul, gently, softly, and, with the kindness one Jew extends to another, work his way into my body, gently and softly, after heeding the words I’d been rehearsing for days now, Please, don’t hurt me, which meant, Hurt me all you want.”
 “Fire like fear, like panic, like one more minute of this and I'll die if he doesn't knock at my door, but I'd sooner he never knock than knock now.”
 “Existe una ley en algún lugar que dice que cuando una persona está totalmente enamorada de otra, es inevitable que la otra lo esté también. Amor ch'a null'amato amar perdona. .”
 “for you in silence, somewhere in Italy in the mid-eighties.”
 “The most beautiful day of my life and I end up throwing up.”
 “Fear not. It will come. At least I hope it does. And when you least expect it. Nature has cunning ways of finding our weakest spot. Just remember: I am here. Right now you may not want to feel anything. Perhaps you never wished to feel anything. And perhaps it’s not with me that you’ll want to speak about these things. But feel something you did.” I looked at him. This was the moment when I should lie and tell him he was totally off course. I was about to.”
 “I liked it when our feet were aligned,left with left, and struck the ground at the sametime, leaving footprints on the shore that Iwished to return to and, in secret, place myfoot where his had left its mark.”
 “I couldn't understand how boldness and sorrow, how you're so hard and do you really care for me? could be so thoroughly bound together. Nor could I begin to fathom how someone so seemingly vulnerable, hesitant, and eager to confide so many uncertainties about herself could, with one and the same gesture, reach into my pants with unabashed recklessness and hold on to my cock and squeeze it.”
 “But I had heeded the warning, and as is said of juries who have heard inadmissible evidence before it is stricken from the record, suddenly realized that we were on borrowed time, that time is always borrowed, and that the lending agency exacts its premium precisely when we are least prepared to pay and need to borrow more. […] I squirreled away small things so that in the lean days ahead glimmers from the past might bring back the warmth. I began, reluctantly, to steal from the present to pay off debts I knew I’d incur in the future. This, I knew, was as much a crime as closing the shutters on sunny afternoons. But I also knew that in Mafalda’s superstitious world, anticipating the worst was as sure a way of preventing it from happening.When we went on a walk one night and he told me that he’d soon be heading back home, I realized how futile my alleged foresight had been. Bombs never fall on the same spot; this one, for all my premonitions, fell exactly in my hideaway.”
 “This is where I dreamed of you before you came into my life.”
 “We belonged to each other, but had lived so far apart that we belonged to others now. Squatters, and only squatters, were the true claimants to our lives.”
 “We are not written for one instrument alone; I am not, neither are you. I”
 “On the train I told him about the day we thought he’d drowned and how I was determined to ask my father to round up as many fishermen as he could to go look for him, and when they found him, to light a pyre on our shore, while I grabbed Mafalda’s knife from the kitchen and ripped out his heart, because that heart and his shirt were all I’d ever have to show for my life. A heart and a shirt. His heart wrapped in a damp shirt – like Anchise’s fish.”
 “I like doing things for you, will do anything for you, just say the word, I liked you from day one, and even when you’ll return ice for my renewed offers of friendship, I’ll never forget that this conversation occurred between us and that there are easy ways to bring back summer in the snowstorm.”
 “Look me in the face, hold my gaze. And call me by your name.”
 “There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is thoroughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well. Amor ch’a null’amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who’s loved from loving, Francesca’s words in the Inferno. Just wait and be hopeful. I was hopeful, though perhaps this was what I had wanted all along. To wait forever.”
 “Today, the pain, the stoking, the thrill of someone new, the promise of so much bliss hovering a fingertip away, the fumbling around people I might misread and don’t want to lose and must second-guess at every turn, the desperate cunning I bring to everyone I want and crave to be wanted by, the screens I put up as though between me and the world there were not just one but layers of rice-paper sliding doors, the urge to scramble and unscramble what was never really coded in the first place—all these started the summer Oliver came into our house. They are embossed on every song that was a hit that summer, in every novel I read during and after his stay, on anything from the smell of rosemary on hot days to the frantic rattle of the cicadas in the afternoon—smells and sounds I’d grown up with and known every year of my life until then but that had suddenly turned on me and acquired an inflection forever colored by the events of that summer.”
 “But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most”
 “You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist.”
 “How you live your life is your business. But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can’t help but live as though we’ve got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there’s only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out.”
 “I took a sip from my second martini, feeling as decadent as one of those jazz piano players who smoke a lot and drink a lot and are found dead in a gutter at the end of every film.”
 “What lies ahead is going to be very difficult,” he started to say, altering his voice. His tone said: We don’t have to speak about it, but let’s not pretend we don’t know what I’m saying. Speaking abstractly was the only way to speak the truth to him.”
 “I hadn’t a hope left. And maybe I stared back because there wasn’t a thing to lose now. I stared back with the all-knowing, I-dare-you-to-kiss-me gaze of someone who both challenges and flees with one and the same gesture.”
 “How I loved the way he repeated what I myself had just repeated. It made me think of a caress, or of a gesture, which happens to be totally accidental the first time but becomes intentional the second time and more so yet the third.”
 “Now may I taste it?” I shook my head. He dipped a finger into the core of the peach and brought it to his mouth. “Please don’t.” This was more than I could bear. “I never could stand my own. But this is yours. Please explain.” “It makes me feel terrible.” He simply shrugged my comment away. “Look, you don’t have to do this. I’m the one who came after you, I sought you out, everything that happened is because of me—you don’t have to do this.” “Nonsense. I wanted you from day one. I just hid it better.”
 “He would never know, just as the people we buy the newspaper from and then fantasize about all night have no idea that this particular inflection on their face or that tan along their exposed shoulder will give us no end of pleasure when we’re alone.”
 “Right now there's sorrow. I don't envy the pain. But I envy you the pain.”
 “I always tried to keep him within my field of vision. I never let him drift away from me except when he wasn't with me. And when he wasn't with me, I didn't much care what he did so long as he remained the exact same person with others as he was with me. Don't let him be someone else when he's away. Don't let him be someone I've never seen before. Don't let him have a life other than the life I know he has with us, with me.”
 “In years to come, if the book was still in his possession, I wanted him to ache. Better yet, I wanted someone to look through his books one day, open up this tiny volume of Armance, and ask, Tell me who was in silence, somewhere in Italy in the mid-eighties? And then I'd want him to feel something as darting as sorrow and fiercer than regret, maybe even pity for me, because in the bookstore that morning I'd have taken pity too, if pity was all he had to give, if pity could have made him put an arm around me, and underneath his surge of pity and regret, hovering like a vague, erotic undercurrent that was years in the making, I wanted him to remember the morning on Monet's berm when I'd kissed him not the first but the second time and given him my spit in his mouth because I so desperately wanted his in mine.”
 “What if my body—just my body, my heart—cried out for his? What to do then?What if at night I wouldn't be able to live with myself unless I had him by me, inside me? What then?”
 “All I had to do was find the source of happiness in me and not rely on others to supply it the next time.”
 “I knew they didn't suspect a thing, and it bothered me—though I wouldn't have wanted it otherwise. It told me that if I were no longer transparent and could disguise so much of my life, then I was finally safe from them, and from him—but at what price, and did I want to be so safe from anyone?”
 “Perhaps the very least I wanted was for him to tell me that there was nothing wrong with me, that I was no less human than any other young man my age. I would have been satisfied and asked for nothing else than if he'd bent down and picked up the dignity I could so effortlessly have thrown at his feet.”
 “just two men kissing, and even this seemed to dissolve, as I began to feel we were not even two men, just two beings. I loved the egalitarianism of the moment. I loved feeling younger and older, human to human, man to man, Jew to Jew.”
 “I liked his bookstore manner. He was curious but not entirely focused, interested yet nonchalant, veering between a Look what I've found and Of course, how could any bookstore not carry so-and-so!"”
 “Maybe it started soon after his arrival during one of those grinding lunches when he sat next to me and it finally dawned on me that, despite a light tan acquired during his brief stay in Sicily earlier that summer, the color on the palms of his hands was the same as the pale, soft skin of his soles, of his throat, of the bottom of his forearms, which hadn’t really been exposed to much sun. Almost a light pink, as glistening and smooth as the underside of a lizard’s belly. Private, chaste, unfledged, like a blush on an athlete’s face or an instance of dawn on a stormy night. It told me things about him I never knew to ask.”
 “But all of these hours were strained by fear, as if fear were a brooding specter, or a strange, lost bird trapped in our little town, whose sooty wing flecked every living thing with a shadow that would never wash. I didn't know what I was afraid of, nor why I worried so much, nor why this thing that could so easily cause panic felt like hope sometimes and, like hope in the darkest moments, brought such joy, unreal joy, joy with a noose tied around it. The thud my heart gave when I saw him unannounced both terrified and thrilled me. I was afraid when he showed up, afraid when he failed to, afraid when he looked at me, more frightened yet when he didn't.”
 “we’ll speak about two young men who found much happiness for a few weeks and lived the remainder of their lives dipping cotton swabs into that bowl of happiness, fearing they’d use it up, without daring to drink more than a thimbleful on ritual anniversaries.” But this thing that almost never was still beckons, I wanted to tell him. They can never undo it, never unwrite it, never unlive it, or relive it—it’s just stuck there like a vision of fireflies on a summer field toward evening that keeps saying, You could have had this instead. But going back is false. Moving ahead is false. Looking the other way is false. Trying to redress all that is false turns out to be just as false.”
 “From this moment on, I thought, from this moment on—I had, as I’d never before in my life, the distinct feeling of arriving somewhere very dear, of wanting this forever, of being me, me, me, me, and no one else, just me, of finding in each shiver that ran down my arms something totally alien and yet by no means unfamiliar, as if all this had been part of me all of my life and I’d misplaced it and he had helped me find it.”
 “Or had I come with a far more menial purpose? To find him living alone, waiting for me, craving to be taken back to B.? Yes, both our lives on the same artificial respirator, waiting for that time when we'd finally meet and scale our way back to the Piave memorial.”
 “Like the subconscious, like love, like memory, like time itself, like every single one of us, the church is built on the ruins of subsequent restorations, there is no rock bottom, there is no first anything, no last anything, just layers and secret passageways and interlocking chambers, like the Christian Catacombs, and right along these, even a Jewish Catacomb.”
 “I began to wonder what turn my life would have taken had someone else shown up instead. I wouldn’t have gone to Rome. But I might have gone elsewhere. Wouldn’t have known the first thing about San Clemente. But I might have discovered something else which I’d missed out on and might never know about. Wouldn’t have changed, would never be who I am today, would have become someone else.”
 “I look back on those days and regret none of it, not the risks, not the shame, not the total lack of foresight.”
 “Well, since you're not going to do anything with me—can you at least read me a story?I'd settle for that. I wanted him to read me a story. Something by Chekhov or Gogol or Katherine Mansfield. Take your clothes off, Oliver, and come into my bed, let me feel your skin, your hair against my flesh, your foot on mine, even if we won't do a thing, lets cuddle up, you and I, when the night is spread out against the sky, and read stories of restless people who always end up alone and hate being alone because it's always themselves they can't stand being alone with . . .”
 “How very true, I thought. Oliver, I wish that you and I and all those we’ve held dear might live forever in one house…”
 “I could spend the rest of my life like this: with him, at night, in Rome, my eyes totally shut, one leg coiled around his. I thought of coming back here in the weeks or months to come—for this was our spot.”
 “I wanted him dead too, so that if I couldn't stop thinking about him and worrying about when would be the next time I'd see him, at least his death would put an end to it.”
 “In the weeks we'd been thrown together that summer, our lives had scarcely touched, but we had crossed to the other bank, where time stops and heaven reaches down to earth and gives us that ration of what is from birth divinely ours. We looked the other way. We spoke about everything but. But we've always known, and not saying anything now confirmed it all the more. We had found the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “You’ll kill me if you stop, you’ll kill me if you stop, because it was also my way of bringing full circle the dream and the fantasy, me and him, the longed-for words from his mouth to my mouth back into his mouth, swapping words from mouth to mouth, which was when I must have begun using obscenities that he repeated after me, softly at first, till he said, “Call me by your name and I’ll call you by mine,” which I’d never done in my life before and which, as soon as I said my own name as though it were his, took me to a realm I never shared with anyone in my life before, or since.”
 “He kissed me on the mouth, but it wasn't the kiss after the Pasquino, when he'd pressed me hard against the wall on via Santa Maria dell' Anima. I recognized the taste instantly. I'd never realized how much I liked it or how long I'd missed it. One more thing to log on that checklist of things I'd miss before losing him for good.”
 “He saw through everybody, but he saw through them precisely because the first thing he looked for in people was the very thing he had seen in himself and may not have wished others to see.”
 “I looked at him: I want one more kiss. I should, could, have seized him.By the next morning, things became officially chilly.”
 “They can never undo it, never unwrite it, never unlive it, or relive it—it’s just stuck there like a vision of fireflies on a summer field toward evening that keeps saying, You could have had this instead. But going back is false. Moving ahead is false. Looking the other way is false. Trying to redress all that is false turns out to be just as false.”
 “It is the first thing I remember about him, and I can hear it still today. Later!”
 “That was the poet’s lesson, I presume. In a month or so from now, when I’d revisit Rome, being here tonight with Oliver would seem totally unreal, as though it had happened to an entirely different me.”
 “But I also knew that I was circling wagons around my life with try again laters, and that months, seasons, entire years, a lifetime could go by with nothing but Saint Try-again-later stamped on every day. Try again later worked for people like Oliver. If not later, when? was my shibboleth.If not later, when? What if he had found me out and uncovered each and every one of my secrets with those four cutting words?”
 “Is this why people say “maybe” when they mean “yes,” but hope you’ll think it’s “no” when all they really mean is, Please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “It never occurred to me that I had brought him here not just to show him my little world, but to ask my little world to let him in, so that the place where I came to be alone on summer afternoons would get to know him, judge him, see if he fitted in, take him in, so that I might come back here and remember.”
 “P.S. We are not written for one instrument alone; I am not, neither are you.”
 “You’re speaking volumes, my friend, and tonight we’re doing short poems only.”
 “...youth has no shame, shame comes with age.”
 “As I sat there, working on transcriptions at my round table in the morning, what I would have settled for was not his friendship, not anything. Just to look up and find him there, suntan lotion, straw hat, red bathing suit, lemonade. To look up and find you there, Oliver. For the day will come soon enough when I'll look up and you'll no longer be there.”
 “When it comes to the senses all humans speak the same beastly tongue”
 “Of course it had moved me, but it had flattered me as well, as though his gesture had said, I believe with every cell in my body that every cell in yours must not, must never, die, and if it does have to die, let it die inside my body.”
 “I knew that he was filled with grief when he finally kissed me one last time in one of the bathroom stalls at Fiumicino Airport”
 “But Later! was also a way of avoiding saying goodbye, of making light of all goodbyes. You said Later! not to mean farewell but to say you’d be back in no time.”
 “Is this one blushing with shame? No, she would say, this one is too young still, youth has no shame, shame comes with age.”
 “My father laughed it off, saying I was too old not to accept people as they were.”
 “Of course, he had no idea what I’d been thinking minutes earlier, but the firm, rounded cheeks of the apricot with their dimple in the middle reminded me of how his body had stretched across the boughs of the tree with his tight, rounded ass echoing the color and the shape of the fruit. Touching the apricot was like touching him.”
 “Think of the pain before the pain”
 “Don’t let him be someone else when he’s away. Don’t let him be someone I’ve never seen before. Don’t let him have a life other than the life I know he has with us, with me. Don’t let me lose him. I knew I had no hold on him, nothing to offer, nothing to lure him by.”
 “...-smells and sounds I'd grown up with and known every year of my life until then but that had suddenly turned on me and acquired an inflection forever coloured by the events of the summer.”
 “How you live your life is your business. But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can’t help but live as though we’ve got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there’s only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it.”
 “I look back on those days and regret none of it, not the risks, not the shame, not the total lack of foresight. The lyric cast of the sun, the teeming fields with tall plants nodding away under the intense midafternoon heat, the squeak of our wooden floors, or the scrape of the clay ashtray pushed ever so lightly on the marble slab that used to sit on my nightstand. I knew that our minutes were numbered, but I didn't dare count them, just as I knew where all this was headed, but I didn't care to read the signposts. This was a time when I intentionally failed to drop bread crumbs for my return journey; instead, I ate them. He could turn out to be a creep; he could change me or ruin me forever, while time and gossip might ultimately disembowel everything we shared and trim the whole thing down till nothing but fish bones remained. I might miss this day, or I might do far better, but I'd always know that on those afternoons in my bedroom I had held my moment.”
 “I’d hold you and kiss you if I could.” “Me too.” I came up to his ear as he was just about to enter the post office and whispered, “Fuck me, Elio.”
 “You’ll kill me if you stop.”
 “I liked it when our feet were aligned, left with left, and struck the ground at the same time, leaving footprints on the shore that I wished to return to and, in secret, place my foot where his had left its mark.”
 “I didn’t want to swim in the lovely, clear pool of his eyes unless I’d been invited to—and I never waited long enough to know whether I was even wanted there; look away because I was too scared to stare anyone back; look away because I didn’t want to give anything away;”
 “Whatever happens between us, Elio, I just want you to know. Don’t ever say you didn’t know.” He was still chewing. In the heat of passion it would have been one thing. But this was quite another. He was taking me away with him. His words made no sense. But I knew exactly what they meant.”
 “But this thing that almost never was still beckons, I wanted to tell him. They can never undo it, never unwrite it, never unlive it, or relive it—it's just stuck there like a vision of fireflies on a summer field toward evening that keeps saying, You could have had this instead. But going back is false. Moving ahead is false. Looking the other way is false. Trying to redress all that is false turns out to be just as false.Their life is like a garbled echo buried for all time in a sealed Mithraic chamber.”
 “Must we?” This was the closest I would ever come to saying, Stay. Just stay with me. Let your hand travel wherever it wishes, take my suit off, take me, I won’t make a noise, won’t tell a soul, I’m hard and you know it, and if you won’t, I’ll take that hand of yours and slip it into my suit now and let you put as many fingers as you want inside me. He wouldn’t have picked up on any of this?”
 “There is a spot on via Santa Maria dell' Anima that I revisit every time I'm in Rome. I'll stare at it for a second, and suddenly it'll all come back to me. I had just thrown up that night and on the way back to the bar you kissed me. People kept walking by but I didn't care, nor did you. That kiss is still imprinted there, thank goodness. It's all I have from you. This and your shirt.”
 “Consigues que me guste quien soy y en lo que me convierto cuando estoy contigo”
 “From this moment on, I thought, from this moment on - I had, as I'd never before in my life, the distinct feeling of arriving somewhere very dear, of wanting this forever, of being me, me, me, me, and no one else, just me, of finding in each shiver that ran down my arms something totally alien and yet by no means unfamiliar, as if all this had been part of me all my life and I'd misplaced it and he had helped me find it.”
 “si bien una palabra suya podía hacerme tan feliz, otra me destruiría con igual facilidad”
 “I’d cast a glance and then look away—look away because I didn’t want to swim in the lovely, clear pool of his eyes unless I’d been invited to—and I never waited long enough to know whether I was even wanted there; look away because I was too scared to stare anyone back; look away because I didn’t want to give anything away; look away because I couldn’t acknowledge how much he mattered.”
 “We were not conspicuous Jews. We wore our Judaism as people do almost everywhere in the world: under the shirt, not hidden, but tucked away.”
 “Not a fire of passion, not a ravaging fire, but something paralyzing, like the fire of cluster bombs that suck up the oxygen around them and leave you panting, because you’ve been kicked in the gut and a vacuum has ripped every living lung tissue and dried your mouth, and you hope nobody speaks, because you can’t talk, and you pray no one asks you to move, because your heart is clogged and beats so fast it would sooner spit out shards of glass than let anything else flow through its narrowed chambers.”
 “Elio: This is my spot. All mine. I come here to read. I can't tell you the number of booksI've read here.Oliver: Do you like being alone?Elio: No. No one likes being alone. But I've learned how to live with it.Oliver: Are you always so very wise?Elio: I'm not wise at all. I told you, I know nothing. I know books, and I know how to string words togethet - it doesn't mean I know how to speak about the things that matter most to me.”
 “It never occurred to me that if one word from him could make me so happy, another could just as easily crush me, that if I didn't want to be unhappy, I should learn to beware of such small joys as well.”
 “As he read the long poem, I began thinking that, unlike him, I had always found a way to avoid counting the days. We were leaving in three days—and then whatever I had with Oliver was destined to go up in thin air. We had talked about meeting in the States, and we had talked of writing and speaking by phone—but the whole thing had a mysteriously surreal quality kept intentionally opaque by both of us—not because we wanted to allow events to catch us unprepared so that we might blame circumstances and not ourselves, but because by not planning to keep things alive, we were avoiding the prospect that they might ever die. We had come to Rome in the same spirit of avoidance: Rome was a final bash before school and travel took us away, just a way of putting things off and extending the party long past closing time. Perhaps, without thinking, we had taken more than a brief vacation; we were eloping together with return-trip tickets to separate destinations.”
 “Hesitantly, I crawled onto the bed and sat facing him, cross-legged like him, as though this were the accepted protocol among men who meet at midnight.”
 “Oh, I knew that other hand so well. May it never let go of me tonight. I worship every finger on that hand, every nail you bite on every one of your fingers, my dear, dear Oliver—don’t let go of me yet, for I need that hand there. A shudder ran down my spine.”
 “P.S. Non siamo stati composti per un solo strumento; né tu, né io.”
 “I lived in the dark so as not to be blinded when darkness came. Rehearse the pain to dull the pain. Homeopathically.”
 “This was the sum of everything I'd been in my life – and more.”
 “Did I want to be like him? Did I want to be him? Or did I just want to have him? Or are "being" and "having" thoroughly inaccurate verbs in the twisted skein of desire, where having someone's body to touch and being that someone we're longing to touch are one and the same, just opposite banks on a river that passes from us to them, back to us and over to them again in this perpetual circuit where the chambers of the heart, like the trapdoors of desire, and the wormholes of time, and the false-bottomed drawer we call identity share a beguiling logic according to which the shortest distance between real life and the life unlived, between who we are and what we want, is a twisted staircase designed with the impish cruelty of M.C. Escher.”
 “But there was something at once chilling and off-putting in the sudden distance that crept between us in the most unexpected moments. It was almost as though he were doing it on purpose; feeding me slack, and more slack, and then yanking away any semblance of fellowship.”
 “I’m not sleeping with you. “Maybe you won’t. Maybe you will. The night is young. And I haven’t given up.”
 “He was whispering, “Off, and off, and off, and off,” which made me laugh, and suddenly I was totally naked, feeling the weight of the sheet on my cock, not a secret left in the world, because wanting to be in bed with him was my only secret and here I was sharing it with him.”
 “I knew exactly what phrase in the piece must have stirred him the first time, and each time I played it, I was sending it to him as a little gift, because it was really dedicated to him, as a token of something very beautiful in me that would take no genius to figure out and that urged me to throw in an extended cadenza. Just for him.”
 “The years are watching you now, every star you see tonight already knows your torment, your ancestors are gathered here and have nothing to give or say, Non c’andà, don’t go there.”
 “The secret was out of my body. So what if he saw. So what if he caught me. So what, so what, so what.”
 “I knew there’d be no coming back from this. When it happened, it happened not as I’d dreamed it would, but with a degree of discomfort that forced me to reveal more of myself than I cared to reveal. I had an impulse to stop him, and when he noticed, he did ask, but I did not answer, or didn’t know what to answer, and an eternity seemed to pass between my reluctance to make up my mind and his instinct to make it up for me.”
 “Or, when I wasn't practicing the guitar and he wasn't listening to his headphones, still with his straw hat flat on his face, he would suddenly break the silence:'Elio.''Yes?''What are you doing?''Reading.''No, you're not.''Thinking, then.''About?'I was dying to tell him.'Private,' I replied.'So you won't tell me?''So I won't tell you.''So he won't tell me,' he repeated, pensively, as if explaining to someone about me.How I loved the way he repeated what I myself had just repeated. It made me think of a caress, or of a gesture, which happens to be totally accidental the first time but becomes intentional the second time and more so yet the third.”
 “You make me like who I am, who I become when you’re with me, Oliver. If there is any truth in the world, it lies when I’m with you, and if I find the courage to speak my truth to you one day, remind me to light a candle in thanksgiving at every altar in Rome.”
 “Did I want to be like him? Did I want to be him? Or did I just want to have him? Or are “being” and “having” thoroughly inaccurate verbs in the twisted skein of desire,”
 “Something bordering on nausea, something like remorse—was that it, then?—began to grip me and seemed to define itself ever more clearly the more I became aware of incipient daylight through our windows.”
 “Finally his voice came through. 'Elio,' he said. I could hear my parents and the voices of children in the background. No one could say my name that way. 'Elio,' I repeated, to say it was I speaking but also to spark our old game and show I'd forgotten nothing. 'It's Oliver,' he said. He had forgotten.”
 “Is it your body that I want when I think of lying next to it every night or do I want to slip into it and own it as if it were my own, as I did when I put on your bathing suit and took it off again, all the while craving, as I craved nothing more in my life that afternoon, to feel you slip inside me as if my entire body were your bathing suit, your home? You in me, me in you…”
 “To be with you. To be with you, Oliver. With or without my bathing suit. To be with you on my bed. In your bed. Which is my bed during the other months of the year. Do with me what you want.”
 “I’d had him inside me barely a few hours ago and that later he had come all over my chest, because he said he wanted to, and I let him, perhaps because I hadn’t come yet and it thrilled me to watch him make faces and peak before my very eyes.”
 “To be with you. To be with you, Oliver. With or without my bathing suit. To be with you on my bed. In your bed. Which is my bed during the other months of the year. Do with me what you want. Take me. Just ask if I want to and see the answer you’ll get, just don’t let me say no.”
 “Would I be able to live without his hand on my tummy or around my hips? Without kissing and licking a wound on his hip that would take weeks to heal, but away from me now? Whom else would I ever be able to call by my name?There would be others, of course, and others after others, but calling them by my name in a moment of passion would feel like a derived thrill, an affectation.”
 “Nature has cunning ways of finding our weakest spot.”
 “Nothing else had changed. I had not changed. The world hadn’t changed. Yet nothing would be the same.”
 “And yet, out of the blue, a tender moment would erupt so suddenly between us that the words I longed to tell him would almost slip out of my mouth.”
 “He pressed me against the wall and started to kiss me, his hips pushing into mine, his arms about to lift me off the ground.”
 “that his hair, turning blonder every day, caught the sun before the sun was completely out in the morning; that his billowy blue shirt, becoming ever more billowy when he wore it on gusty days on the patio by the pool, promised to harbor a scent of skin and sweat that made me hard just thinking of it. All this I could have denied. And believed my denials.”
 “Never in my life had I been so happy. Nothing could go wrong, everything was happening my way, all the doors were clicking open one by one, and life couldn't have been more radiant: it was shining right at me, and when I turned my bike left or right, or tried to move away from its light, it followed me as limelight follows an actor onstage. I craved him but I could just as easily live without him, and either way was fine.”
 “At one hundred, surely you learn to overcome loss and grief—or do they hound you till the bitter end? At one hundred, siblings forget, sons forget, loved ones forget, no one remembers anything, even the most devastated forget to remember. Mothers and fathers have long since died. Does anyone remember?”
 “But I couldn't even remember last night's anxieties. They were completely overshadowed by what followed them and seemed to belong to a segment of time to which I had no access whatsoever.”
 “Would I be able to live without his hand on my tummy or around my hips?”
 “Green, which he seldom wore: acquiescent, eager to learn, eager to speak, sunny—why wasn’t he always like this?”
 “Oliver came up to me and asked me to play something on the piano.'What would you like?' I asked.'Anything.'This would be my thanks for the most beautiful evening of my life. I took a sip from my second martini, feeling as decadent as one of those jazz piano players who smoke a lot and drink a lot and are found dead in a gutter at the end of every film.”
 “Every once in a while, sudden soreness triggered a twinge of discomfort and shame. Whoever said the soul and the body met in the pineal gland was a fool. It’s the asshole, stupid.”
 “Looking at him now from the balustrade, I felt something so tender for him that it reminded me how eagerly I had rushed to B. to catch him before he'd even made it into the post office. This was the best person I'd ever known in my life. I had chosen him well.”
 “Was he my home, then, my homecoming? You are my homecoming. When I’m with you and we’re well together, there is nothing more I want. You make me like who I am, who I become when you’re with me, Oliver.”
 “Was I glad to be alone now that sleep was upon me? Yes. Well, no. Yes. But maybe not. Yes, yes, yes. I was happy, and this was all that mattered, with others, without others, I was happy.”
 “On our way we passed a shop where my mother always ordered flowers. As a child I liked to watch the large storefront window awash in a perpetual curtain of water which came sliding down ever so gently, giving the shop an enchanted, mysterious aura that reminded me of how in many films the screen would blur to announce that a flashback was about to occur.”
 “Outside, the night was settling fast. I liked the peace and the silence of the countryside, with its fading alpenglow and darkling view of the river. Oliver country, I thought. The mottled lights from across the other bank beamed on the water, reminding me of Van Gogh’s 'Starlight Over the Rhone.' Very autumnal, very beginning of school year, very Indian summer, and as always at Indian summer twilight, that lingering mix of unfinished summer business and unfinished homework and always the illusion of summer months ahead, which wears itself out no sooner than the sun has set.”
 “There’d be plenty of time for mourning, I thought. It will come, probably on the sly, as I’ve heard these things always do, and there won’t be any getting off lightly, either. Anticipating sorrow to neutralize sorrow—that’s paltry, cowardly stuff, I told myself, knowing I was an ace practitioner of the craft. And what if it came fiercely? What if it came and didn’t let go, a sorrow that had come to stay, and did to me what longing for him had done on those nights when it seemed there was something so essential missing from my life that it might as well have been missing from my body, so that losing him now would be like losing a hand you could spot in every picture of yourself around the house, but without which you couldn’t possibly be you again.”
 “All this means is that in ten days when I look out to this spot, you won't be here. I don't know what I'll do then. At least you'll be elsewhere, where there are no memories.”
 “I wanted to tell him that the pool, the garden, the house, the tennis court, the orle of paradise, the whole place, would always be his ghost spot. Instead, I pointed upstairs to the French windows of his room. Your eyes are forever there, I wanted to say, trapped in the sheer curtains, staring out from my bedroom upstairs where no one sleeps these days. When there’s a breeze and they swell and I look up from down here or stand outside on the balcony, I’ll catch myself thinking that you’re in there, staring out from your world to my world, saying, as you did on that one night when I found you on the rock, I’ve been happy here. You’re thousands of miles away but no sooner do I look at this window than I’ll think of a bathing suit, a shirt thrown on on the fly, arms resting on the banister, and you’re suddenly there, lighting up your first cigarette of the day—twenty years ago today. For as long as the house stands, this will be your ghost spot—and mine too, I wanted to say.”
 “Never a bedtime in their house, no rules, no supervision, nothing. That’s why he’s such a well-behaved boy. Don’t you see? Nothing to rebel against.”
 “Now, in the silence of the moment, I stared back, not to defy him, or to show I wasn’t shy any longer, but to surrender, to tell him this is who I am, this is who you are, this is what I want, there is nothing but truth between us now, and where there’s truth there are no barriers, no shifty glances, and if nothing comes of this, let it never be said that either of us was unaware of what might happen.”
 “Did I want him to act? Or would I prefer a lifetime of longing provided we both kept this little Ping-Pong game going: not knowing, not-not knowing, not-notnot knowing?”
 “Our bodies won't have secrets now.”
 “Cor cordium, heart of hearts,” I replied, referring to the moment when a friend had seized Shelley’s heart before the flames had totally engulfed his swollen body as it was being cremated on the shore.”
 “The sun was right on me now, and I loved the sun with a near pagan love for things of the earth. Pagan, that's what you are”
 “[...]by not planning to keep things alive, we were avoiding the prospect that they might ever die.”
 “For you, however you think of it, it’s still fun and games, which it should be. For me it’s something else which I haven’t figured out, and the fact that I can’t scares me.”
 “But friendship, as defined by everyone, was alien, fallow stuff I cared nothing for. What I may have wanted instead, from the moment he stepped out of the cab to our farewell in Rome, was what all humans ask of one another, what makes life livable.”
 “I wished I were like those soldiers in films who run out of bullets and toss away their guns as though they would never again have any use for them, or like runaways in the desert who, rather than ration the water in the gourd, yield to thirst and swill away, then drop their gourd in their tracks. Instead, I squirreled away small things so that in the lean days ahead glimmers from the past might bring back the warmth. I began, reluctantly, to steal from the present to pay off debts I knew I'd incur in the future. This, I knew, was as much a crime as closing the shutters on sunny afternoons. But I also knew that in Mafalda's superstitious world, anticipating the worst was as sure a way of preventing it from happening.When we went on a walk one night and he told me that he'd soon be heading back home, I realized how futile my alleged foresight had been. Bombs never fall on the same spot; this one, for all my premonitions, fell exactly in my hideaway.”
 “Se ti ricordi tutto, volevo dirgli, e se sei davvero come me, allora domani prima di partire o quando sei pronto per chiudere la portiera del taxi e hai già salutato gli altri e non c'è più nulla da dire in questa vita, allora, una volta soltanto, girati verso di me, anche per scherzo, o perché ci hai ripensato, e, come avevi già fatto allora, guardami negli occhi, trattieni il mio sguardo, e chiamami col tuo nome.”
 “«When did you know about me?»[...]«When you blushed.»”
 “Are you going to be okay?''I thought I was. I'll get over it.' I'd heard too many characters say the same thing in too many novels. It let the runaway lover off the hook. It allowed everyone to save face. It restored dignity and courage to the one whose cover had been completely blown.”
 “Not know that I didn’t want him to let go of me? Not sense that when he started massaging me, my inability to relax was my last refuge, my last defense, my last pretense, that I had by no means resisted, that mine was fake resistance, that I was incapable of resisting and would never want to resist, no matter what he did or asked me to do?”
 “Leaning out into the evening air, I knew that this might never be given to us again, and yet I couldn't bring myself to believe it.”
 “Find Cupid everywhere in Rome because we'd clipped on of his wings and he was forced to fly in circles.”
 “I was mistaken—and I don’t think I was—that what we had between us was the total transparency that exists among friends only. Perhaps we were friends first and lovers second. But then perhaps this is what lovers are.”
 “El que no lo intenta siempre se lamenta”
 “I hadn’t a hope left. And maybe I stared back because there wasn’t a thing to lose now. I stared back with the all-knowing, I-dare-you-to-kiss-me gaze of someone who both challenges and flees with one and the same gesture. “You’re making things very difficult for me.”
 “Quiero conocerte y, a través de ti, conocerme a mi.”
 “Like soldiers trained to fight by night, I lived in the dark so as not to be blinded when darkness came. Rehearse the pain to dull the pain. Homeopathically.”
 “Marzia: People who read are hiders. They hide who they are. People who hide don't always like who they are.Elio: Do you hide who you are?Marzia: Sometimes. Don't you?Elio: Do I? I suppose. Do you hide from me?Marzia: No, not from you. Or maybe, yes, a bit.Elio: Like what?Marzia: You know exactly like what.Elio: Why do say that?Marzia: Why? Becaue I think you can hurt me and I don't want to be hurt.Not that you mean to hurt anyone, but because you're always changing your mind, always slipping, so no one knows where to find you. You scare me.”
 “Sometimes the only way to understand an artist is to wear his shoes, to get inside him. Then everything else flows naturally.”
 “Before long, my mother's friend, who, at the last minute, decided to stay for dinner, was asked to sit where I'd sat at lunch. Oliver's place setting was instantly removed,The removal was performed summarily, without a hint of regret or compunction, the way you'd remove a bulb that was no longer working, or scrape out the entrails of a butchered sheep, or take off the sheets and blankets from a bed where someone had died. Here, take these, and remove them from sight. I watched his silverware, his place mat, his napkin, his entire being disappear. It presaged exactly what would happen less than a month from now.”
 “I desperately wanted to give him something. By contrast, taking seemed so bland, so facile, so mechanical.”
 “In your place, if there is pain, nurse it, and if there is a flame, don’t snuff it out, don’t be brutal with it.”
 “Just promise to let me keep it after you’re gone.” “That’s all?” “Well, wear it a lot today—and don’t swim in it.” “Sick and twisted.” “Sick and twisted and very, very sad.” “I’ve never seen you like this.” “I want Billowy too. And the espadrilles. And the sunglasses. And you.”
 “I don't care to remember—like I know myself—hinted at a realm of human experience only others had access to, not I.”
 “I think we should go.”"Not yet.”
 “That day belongs to a different time warp. We should learn to leave sleeping dogs—”
 “Smile, and the world smiles back. “Oliver, I’m happy,” I said. He looked at me in wonderment. “You’re just horny.” “No, happy.”
 “Wish we could start all over in that room, I said. Both leaning out the window in the evening, rubbing shoulders, as we did in Rome—every day of my life, I said. Every day of mine too. Shirt, toothbrush, score, and I'm flying over, so don't tempt me either.”
 “You had a beautiful friendship. Maybe more than a friendship. And I envy you. In my place, most parents would hope the whole thing goes away, or pray that their sons land on their feet soon enough. But I am not such a parent. In your place, if there is a pain, nurse it, and if there is a flame, don't snuff it out, don't be brutal with it. Withdrawal can be a terrible thing when it keeps us awake at night, and watching others forget us sooner than we'd want to be forgotten is no better. We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with someone new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything - what a waste.”
 “The look on his face became like the tiny snapshot of a beloved that soldiers take with them to the battlefield, not only to remember there are good things in life and that happiness awaits them, but to remind themselves that this face might never forgive them for coming back in a body bag.”
 “I knew that he was filled with grief when he finally kissed me one last time in one of the bathroom stalls at Fiumicino Airport and that, even if on the plane the drinks and the movie had distracted him, once alone in his room in New York, he too would be sad again, and I hated thinking of him sad, just as I knew he'd hate to see me sad in our bedroom, which had all too soon become my bedroom.”
 “Did I want to be like him? Did I want to be him? Or did I just want to have him?”
 “we were eloping together with return-trip tickets to separate destinations.”
 “I lunged out to grab the fruit from his hand, but with his other hand he caught hold of my wrist and squeezed it hard, as they do in movies, when one man forces another to let go of a knife.”
 “And yet another part of me knew that if he showed up tonight and I disliked the start of whatever was in store for me, I'd still go through with it, go with it all the way, because better to find out once and for all than to spend the rest of the summer, or my life perhaps, arguing with my body.”
 “True,” said someone, “your ‘invigoration’ works only on those who no longer have it.”
 “Or does one accrue a deficit of malaise so large that one learns to find ways to consolidate it in one lump feeling with its own amnesties and grace periods?”
 “I brought the bathing suit to my face, then rubbed my face inside of it, as if I were trying to snuggle into it and lose myself inside its folds—So this is what he smells like when his body isn’t covered in suntan lotion, this is what he smells like, this is what he smells like, I kept repeating to myself, looking inside the suit for something more personal yet than his smell and then kissing every corner of it, almost wishing to find hair, anything, to lick it, to put the whole bathing suit into my mouth, and, if I could only steal it, keep it with me forever, never ever let Mafalda wash it, turn to it in the winter months at home and, on sniffing it, bring him back to life, as naked as he was with me at this very moment.”
 “Or does the presence of the other, who yesterday morning felt almost like an intruder, become ever more necessary because it shields us from our own hell—so that the very person who causes our torment by daybreak is the same who’ll relieve it at night?”
 “Which was when a crazier notion possessed me. I undid his bed, took off his suit, and cuddled it between his sheets, naked. Let him find me—I’ll deal with it, one way or another.”
 “You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as you know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist.”
 “I put his pillow over my face, kissed it savagely, and, wrapping my legs around it, told it what I lacked the courage to tell everyone else in the world. Then I told him what I wanted. It took less than a minute.”
 “Then he kissed me, and kissed me again, deeply this second time, as if he too was finally letting go. At some point I realized he’d been naked for a long while, though I hadn’t noticed him undress, but there he was, not a part of him wasn’t touching me.”
 “We were—and he must have recognized the signs long before I did—flirting.”
 “What I forgot to earmark in that promise was that ice and apathy have ways of instantly repealing all truces and resolutions signed in sunnier moments. - Elio”
 “I already told you, I’m okay.” “Did I tell you I was okay too?” “Yes.” He smiled. I looked away, because he was staring at me, and I knew I was flushed, and I knew I’d made a face, though I still wanted him to stare at me even if it embarrassed me, and I wanted to keep staring at him too as we settled in our mock wrestling position, his shoulders rubbing my knees.”
 “If you remember everything, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you’re just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there’s not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is thoroughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well.”
 “We are not written for one instrument alone.”
 “Love, which exempts no one who’s loved from loving, Francesca’s words in the Inferno.”
 “That steely look of yours, Oliver, I’d rather die than face it once I’ve told you.”
 “How could anyone intuit the manner of someone's thinking unless he himself was already familiar with this same mode of thinking? How could he perceive so many devious turns in others unless he had practiced them himself?”
 “How I wished I had shoulders like his. Maybe I wouldn’t long for them if I had them?”
 “The thought washed over me like water on a flower shop window, like a soothing, cool lotion after you've showered and spent the whole day in the sun, loving the sun but loving the balsam more.”
 “I had known it would hurt. What I hadn’t expected was that the hurt would find itself coiled and twisted into sudden pangs of guilt. No one had told me about this either. Outside it was clearly dawn now. Why was he staring at me? Had he guessed what I was feeling? “You’re not happy,” he said.”
 “It was not him I hated—but the thing we’d done. I didn’t want him looking into my heart just yet. Instead, I wanted to remove myself from this bog of self-loathing and didn’t know how to do it. “You’re feeling sick about it, aren’t you?” Again I shrugged the comment away. “I knew we shouldn’t have. I knew it,” he repeated. For the first time in my life I watched him balk, prey to self-doubt.”
 “We should have talked…” “Maybe,” I said. Of all the things I could have uttered that morning, this insignificant “maybe” was the cruelest. “Did you hate it?” No, I didn’t hate it at all. But what I felt was worse than hate. I didn’t want to remember, didn’t want to think about it. Just put it away. It had never happened. I had tried it and it didn’t work for me, now I wanted my money back, roll back the film, take me back to that moment when I’m almost stepping out onto the balcony barefoot, I’ll go no farther, I’ll sit and stew and never know—better to argue with my body than feel what I was feeling now. Elio, Elio, we warned you, didn’t we?”
 “I needed him as far away as possible if I was to feel better and forget—but I needed him close by in case this thing took a turn for the worse and there was no one to turn to. Meanwhile, another part of me was actually happy the whole thing was behind me. He was out of my system. I would pay the price. The questions were: Would he understand? And would he forgive?”
 “Perhaps what I liked far more was the evening. Everything about it thrilled me. Every glance that crossed my own came like a compliment, or like an asking and a promise that simply lingered in midair between me and the world around me. I was electrified — by the chaffing, the irony, the glances, the smiles that seemed pleased I existed, by the buoyant air in the shop that graced everything from the glass door to the petits fours, to the golden ochre spell of plastic glasses filled with scotch whiskey, to Mr. Venga's rolled up sleeves, to the poet himself, down to the spiral staircase where we had congregated with the babe sisters — all seemed to glow with a luster at once spellbound and aroused.”
 “Like every experience that marks us for a lifetime, I found myself turned inside out, drawn and quartered. This was the sum of everything I'd been in my life—and more.”
 “Just because someone says he'll see you at midnight doesn't mean you're automatically bound to hug him when you've barely shaken hands all week.”
 “Zwischen Immer und Nie. Zwischen Immer und Nie. Between always and never. Celan.”
 “Ero già prontissimo a etichettare Oliver come difficile e inavvicinabile, e a non avere più nulla a che spartire con lui. Ma due parole bastarono perché la mia imbronciata apatia si trasformasse in: Suonerò qualunque cosa per te finché non mi dirai di smettere, finché non sarà ora di pranzo, finché non mi verrà via la pelle dai polpastrelli, strato dopo strato, perché mi piace fare qualcosa per te, farò tutto quello che vorrai, devi soltanto dirmelo, mi sei piaciuto dal primo giorno e, perfino quando riceverò gelo in cambio delle mie rinnovate offerte d'amicizia, non dimenticherò mai che ci siamo detti queste cose e che non è poi così difficile ritrovare l'estate dopo una tormenta di neve.”
 “It never occurred to me that what had totally panicked me when he touched me was exactly what startles virgins on being touched for the first time by the person they desire: he stirs nerves in them they never knew existed and that produce far, far more disturbing pleasures than they are used to on their own.”
 “Youth has no shame. shame comes with age.”
 “You okay?” “Fine. Fine,” I replied. Then, with an awkward smile, as if correcting his initial question: “Are you okay everywhere?”
 “You know what things. By now you of all people should know.” Silence. “Why are you telling me all this?” “Because I thought you should know.” “Because you thought I should know.” He repeated my words slowly, trying to take in their full meaning, all the while sorting them out, playing for time by repeating the words. The iron, I knew, was burning hot.”
 “You know what things. By now you of all people should know.” Silence. “Why are you telling me all this?” “Because I thought you should know.” “Because you thought I should know.” He repeated my words slowly, trying to take in their full meaning, all the while sorting them out, playing for time by repeating the words. The iron, I knew, was burning hot. “Because I want you to know,” I blurted out. “Because there is no one else I can say it to but you.” There, I had said it.”
 “Do you know what you’re saying?” This time I looked out to the sea and, with a vague and weary tone that was my last diversion, my last cover, my last getaway, said, “Yes, I know what I’m saying and you’re not mistaking any of it. I’m just not very good at speaking. But you’re welcome never to speak to me again.” “Wait. Are you saying what I think you’re saying?” “Ye-es.”
 “Not if you don’t want to.” I knew exactly what he wanted to talk about. He wanted to go over the moment when I’d almost asked him to stop.”
 “I wished we hadn’t slept together. Even his body left me indifferent. On the rock where we sat now I looked at his body as one looks at old shirts and trousers being boxed for pick up by the Salvation Army.”
 “I had worshipped them all once. I had touched them the way a civet rubs itself on the objects it covets. They’d been mine for a night. I didn’t want them now. What I couldn’t remember, much less understand, was how I could have brought myself to desire them, to do all I’d done to be near them, touch them, sleep with them. After our swim I’d take that much-awaited shower. Forget, forget.”
 “As we were swimming back, he asked as though it were an afterthought, “Are you going to hold last night against me?”
 “I did not want passion, I did not want pleasure. Perhaps I didn’t even want proof. And I did not want words, small talk, big talk, bike talk, book talk, any of it. Just the sun, the grass, the occasional sea breeze, and the smell of his body fresh from his chest, from his neck and his armpits.”
 “No,” I answered. But I had answered too swiftly for someone who meant what he was saying. To soften the ambiguity of my no, I said I’d probably want to sleep all day. “I don’t think I’ll be able to ride my bike today.” “Because…” He was not asking me a question, he was supplying the answer. “Yes, because.”
 “I was not unhappy. I wanted to be with someone. But it didn't trouble me that I was alone.”
 “Perhaps that was supposed to mean Absolutely, when I let my tongue loose: “Do I like you, Oliver? I worship you.” There, I’d said it.”
 “And yes, there was such a luster in his eyes that I had to look away, and when I looked back at him, his gaze hadn’t moved and was still focused on my face, as if to say, So you looked away and you’ve come back, will you be looking away again soon?—which was why I had to look away once more, as if immersed in thought, yet all the while scrambling for something to say, the way a fish struggles for water in a muddied pond that’s drying up in the heat.”
 “I can, from the distance of years now, still think I’m hearing the voices of two young men singing these words in Neapolitan toward daybreak, neither realizing, as they held each other and kissed again and again on the dark lanes of old Rome, that this was the last night they would ever make love again.”
 “How is it that some people go through hell trying to get close to you, while you haven't the haziest notion and don't even give them a thought when two weeks go by and you haven't so much as exchanged a single word between you.”
 “Staring at his neck with its star and telltale amulet was like staring at something timeless, ancestral, immortal in me, in him, in both of us, begging to be rekindled and brought back from its millenary sleep.”
 “Luckily I’d asked him again to give me Billowy that morning, after I’d made sure he wore it all through our stay in Rome.”
 “Who can resist sleep at two or three in the afternoon in these sunlit parts of the Mediterranean?”
 “Was my father someone else? And if he was someone else, who was I?”
 “softening the tone of my answer with a meaningfully evasive Perhaps that was supposed to mean Absolutely, when I let my tongue loose: “Do I like you, Oliver? I worship you.” There, I’d said it.”
 “I want to know you, and through you me.”
 “read stories of restless people who always end up alone and hate being alone because it’s always themselves they can’t stand being alone with…”
 “I tried imitating him a few times. But I was too self-conscious, like someone trying to feel natural while walking about naked in a locker room only to end up aroused by his own nakedness.”
 “Blue: the afternoon he stepped into my room from the balcony, the day he massaged my shoulder, or when he picked up my glass and placed it right next to me.”
 “Oppure "essere" e "avere" sono verbi del tutto inadeguati nell'intricata matassa del desiderio, per cui avere il corpo di qualcuno da toccare ed essere quel qualcuno che desideriamo toccare è la stessa cosa, sono solo rive opposte di un fiume che scorre dall'uno all'altro, poi torna indietro e infine va di nuovo verso l'altro, e ancora, e ancora, un circuito perpetuo dove le cavità del cuore, come le botole del desiderio e i buchi del tempo e il cassetto a doppiofondo chiamato identità, condividono una logica ingannevole, secondo la quale la distanza più breve tra vita reale e vita non vissuta, tra ciò che siamo e ciò che vogliamo, è una scalinata tortuosa.”
 “Watching him wearing my clothes was an unbearable turn-on. And he knew it. It was turning both of us on. The thought of his cock rubbing the netted fabric where mine had rested reminded me how, before my very eyes, and after so much exertion, he had finally shot his load on my chest.”
 “Smile and the world smiles back.”
 “It was the porousness, the fungibility, of our bodies—what was mine was suddenly his, just as what belonged to him could be all mine now.”
 “I had never been able to admit to myself how happy Oliver had made me the day he’d swallowed my peach.”
 “I wish I hadn’t spoken,” I finally said. I knew as soon as I’d said it that I’d broken the exiguous spell between us. “I’m going to pretend you never did.” Well, that was an approach I’d never expected from a man who was so okay with the world.”
 “Find Cupid everywhere in Rome because we’d clipped one of his wings and he was forced to fly in circles.”
 “Do crazy things if you must, they told me all the while, forever prying to unearth the mysterious, tel tale signs of heartbreak which, in their clumsy, intrusive, devoted way, both would instantly wish to heal, as if I were a soldier who had strayed into their garden and needed his wound immediately stanched or else he’d die. You can always talk to me. I was your age once, my father used to say. The things you feel and think only you have felt, believe me, I've lived and suffered through all of them, and more than once—some I've never gotten over and others I’m as ignorant about as you are today, yet I know almost every bend, every toll-booth, every chamber in the human heart.”
 “Later! always left a sharp aftertaste to what until then may have been a warm, heart-to-heart moment.”
 “None of our summer guests had ever been as freewheeling. But everyone loved him for it, the way everyone grew to love Later!”
 “I may never see him again either,” I said.”
 “Later! always left a sharp aftertaste to what until then may have been a warm, heart-to-heart moment. Later! didn’t close things neatly or allow them to trail off. It slammed them shut.”
 “I was treading water, trying neither to drown nor to swim to safety, just staying in place, because here was the truth—even if I couldn't speak the truth, or even hint at it, yet I could swear it lay around us, the way we say of a necklace we've just lost while swimming: I know it’s down there somewhere.”
 “My father, always the most indulgent among us, but also the most observant, had figured the cauboi out. “É un timido, he’s shy, that’s why,” he said when asked to explain Oliver’s abrasive Later!”
 “With open arms, caro. Jokes were being bandied back and forth. You know our tradition, explained my mother, you must always come back, even for a few days. Even for a few days meant for no more than a few days—but she’d meant what she said, and he knew it.”
 “I wondered what their life together was like.”
 “But sleep would not come, and sure enough not one but two troubling thoughts, like paired specters materializing out of the fog of sleep, stood watch over me: desire and shame, the longing to throw open my window and, without thinking, run into his room stark-naked, and, on the other hand, my repeated inability to take the slightest risk to bring any of this about. There they were, the legacy of youth, the two mascots of my life, hunger and fear, watching over me, saying, So many before you have taken the chance and been rewarded, why can’t you? No answer. So many have balked, so why must you? No answer. And then it came, as ever deriding me: If not later, Elio, when?”
 “But you’re doing it now—in a way.” “Yes, in a way—that’s how I always say things: in a way.”
 “I think you can hurt me and I don't want to be hurt. Not that you mean to hurt anyone, but because you're always changing your mind, always slipping, so no one knows where to find you. You scare me.”
 “There they were, the legacy of youth, the two mascots of my life, hunger and fear, watching over me, saying "So many before you have taken the chance and been rewarded, why can't you?" No answer. "So many have balked, so why must you?" No answer. And then it came, as ever deriding me: "If not later, Elio, when?”
 “Anchise, all of them trying to teach him a Neapolitan song. It was not only the national hymn of their southern youth, but it was the best they could offer when they wished to entertain royalty. Everyone was won over.”
 “I looked at them, wondering who was top and who was bottom,”
 “If I could have him like this in my dreams every night of my life, I'd stake my entire life on dreams and be done with the rest”
 “He was good, and you were both lucky to have found each other, because you too are good.”
 “I squirreled away small things so that in the lean days ahead glimmers from the past might bring back the warmth. I began, reluctantly, to steal from the present to pay off debts I knew I’d incur in the future. This, I knew, was as much a crime as closing the shutters on sunny afternoons.”
 “But seeing everyone take such a liking to him, I found a strange, small oasis of peace.”
 “My father had never spoken of goodness this way before. It disarmed me.”
 “Because everyone liked him, I had to say I liked him too. I was like men who openly declare other men irresistibly handsome the better to conceal that they’re aching to embrace them.”
 “I think he was better than me, Papa.” “I am sure he’d say the same about you, which flatters the two of you.” He was about to tap his cigarette and, in leaning toward the ashtray, he reached out and touched my hand.”
 “Or: how do you go back to sleep no longer a virgin? There was no coming back from that!”
 “«Senti» mi interruppe, «tra voi c’è una bella amicizia. Forse anche qualcosa in più. E io ti invidio. Al posto mio, la maggior parte dei genitori spererebbe che tutto si dissolva, o pregherebbe che il figlio ne esca indenne. Ma io non sono così. Al posto tuo, se il dolore c’è, lo farei sfogare, e se la fiamma è accesa, non la spegnerei, cercherei di non essere troppo duro. Chiudersi in se stessi può essere una cosa terribile quando ci tiene svegli di notte, e vedere che gli altri ci dimenticano prima di quanto vorremmo non è tanto meglio. Rinunciamo a tanto di noi per guarire più in fretta del dovuto, che finiamo in bancarotta a trent’anni, e ogni volta che ricominciamo con una persona nuova abbiamo meno da offrire. Ma non provare niente per non rischiare di provare qualcosa… che spreco!»”
 “He remembered and instantly moaned his own name three times, as we’d done during that night. I could feel myself already getting hard. Then, to tease him with the very same words he’d uttered earlier that morning, I said, “We’ll save it for later.”
 “I didn't know their language, didn't know the language of their hearts, didn't even know my own. I saw veils everywhere: what I wanted, what I didn't know I wanted, what I didn't want to know I wanted, what I’d always known I wanted. This is either a miracle. Or it is hell.”
 “No, there’d been another time yet. In my sleep, when he came into my bedroom and lay on top of me, and I pretended to be asleep. Correction there again: in my sleep I’d heaved ever so slightly, just enough to tell him, Don’t leave, you’re welcome to go on, just don’t say I knew.”
 “supreme poker player”
 “Sono come te" ha detto. "Mi ricordo tutto."Mi sono fermato un secondo. Se ti ricordi tutto, volevo dirgli, e se sei davvero me, allora domani prima di partire o quando sei pronto per chiudere la portiera del taxi e hai già salutato gli altri e non c'è più nulla da dire in questa vita, allora, una volta soltanto, girati verso di me, anche per scherzo, o perché ci hai ripensato, e, come avevi già fatto allora, guardami negli occhi, trattieni il mio sguardo, e chiamami col tuo nome.”
 “los jóvenes no tienen vergüenza, la vergüenza llega con la edad.”
 “We were too close, I thought, I'd never been so close to him except in a dream or when he cupped his hand to light my cigarette. If he brought his ear any closer he'd hear my heart. I'd seen it written in novels but never believed it until now.”
 “I was happy that the room would revert to me. In my/his room, it would be easier to remember our nights.No, better keep my current room. Then, at least, I could pretend he was still in his, and if he wasn't there, that he was still out as he so frequently used to be on those nights when I counted the minutes, the hours, the sounds.”
 “I respected and feared him and hated him for making me hate myself.”
 “I want Billowy too. And the espadrilles. And the sunglasses. And you.”
 “I could tell he was tasting it at that very instant. Something that was mine was in his mouth, more his than mine now. I don’t know what happened to me at that moment as I kept staring at him, but suddenly I had a fierce urge to cry.”
 “Kiss me now, before it’s totally gone,” I said. His mouth would taste of peaches and me.”
 “My father would never object. He might make a face at first, then take it back.”
 “Then let me say one more thing. It will clear the air. I may have come close, but I never had what you had. Something always held me back or stood in the way. How you live your life is your business. But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can’t help but live as though we’ve got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there’s only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it. Right now there’s sorrow. I don’t envy the pain. But I envy you the pain.”
 “Did I want to be like him? Did I want to be him? Or did I just want to have him? Or are "being" and "having" thoroughly inaccurate verbs in the twisted skein of desire, where having someone's body to touch and being that someone we're longing to touch are one and the same, just opposite banks on a river that passes from us to them, back to us and over to them again in this perpetual circuit where the chambers of the heart, like the trapdoors of desire, and the wormholes of time, and the false-bottomed drawer we call identity share a beguiling logic according to which the shortest distance between real life and the life unlived, between who we are and what we want, is a twisted staircase designes with the impish creulty of M.C. Escher.”
 “He took a breath. “We may never speak about this again. But I hope you’ll never hold it against me that we did. I will have been a terrible father if, one day, you’d want to speak to me and felt that the door was shut or not sufficiently open.” I wanted to ask him how he knew. But then how could he not have known? How could anyone not have known? “Does Mother know?” I asked. I was going to say suspect but corrected myself. “I don’t think she does.” His voice meant, But even if she did, I am sure her attitude would be no different than mine.”
 “But before he’d stepped out of the cab and walked into our home, it would never have seemed remotely possible that someone so thoroughly okay with himself might want me to share his body as much as I ached to yield up mine.”
 “I thought I could ever want another living soul, gently, softly, and, with the kindness one Jew extends to another, work his way into my body, gently and softly, after heeding the words I’d been rehearsing for days now, Please, don’t hurt me, which meant, Hurt me all you want.”
 “it would finally dawn on us both that he was more me than I had ever been myself, because when he became me and I became him in bed so many years ago, he was and would forever remain, long after every forked road in life had done its work, my brother, my friend, my father, my son, my husband, my lover, myself.”
 “To be happy like this maybe wasn’t so difficult after all. All I had to do was find the source of happiness in me and not rely on others to supply it the next time.”
 “Domestic bliss. Just because he’d let me be his top last night.”
 “Here was someone who lacked for nothing. I couldn’t understand this feeling. I envied him.”
 “I smiled right away, because I caught his attempt to backpedal, which instantly brought complicit smiles to our faces, like a passionate wet kiss in the midst of a conversation between two indviduals who, without thinking, had reached for each other's lips through the scorching red desert both had intentionally placed between them so as not to grope for each other's nakedness.”
 “We arrived at Stazione Termini around 7 p.m. on a Wednesday evening. The air was thick and muggy, as if Rome had been awash in a rainstorm that had come and gone and relieved none of the dampness. With dusk scarcely an hour away, the street-lights glistened through dense halos, while the lighted storefronts seemed doused in gleaming colors of their own invention. Dampness clung to every forehead and every face. I wanted to caress his face. I couldn’t wait to get to our hotel and shower and throw myself on the bed, knowing all the while that, unless we had good air-conditioning, I’d be no better off after the shower. But I also loved the languor that sat upon the city, like a lover’s tired, unsteady arm resting on your shoulders.”
 “Si existe la verdad en el mundo, esta miente cuando estoy contigo”
 “But another part of me wanted him to sense that there was no point trying to catch up now—we'd traveled and been through too much without each other for there to be any common ground between us. Perhaps I wanted him to feel the sting of loss, and grieve. But in the end, and by way of compromise, perhaps, I decided that the easiest way was to show I'd forgotten none of it. I made a motion to take him to the empty lot that remained as scorched and fallow as when I'd shown it to him two decades before. I had barely finished my offer—'Been there, done that,' he replied. It was his way of telling me he hadn't forgotten either. 'Maybe you'd prefer to make a quick stop at the bank.' He burst out laughing. 'I'll bet you they never closed my account.' 'If we have time, and if you care to, I'll take you to the belfry. I know you've never been up there.''To-die-for?'I smiled back. He remembered our name for it.”
 “I began, reluctantly, to steal from the present to pay off debts I knew I'd incur in the future. This, I knew, was as much a crime as closing the shutters on sunny afternoons.”
 “the place where, as with the berm, one comes to be alone, to dream of others.”
 “Like showing someone your private chapel, your secret haunt, the place where, as with the berm, one comes to be alone, to dream of others.”
 “Amor ch’a null’amato amar perdona.”
 “As I tried to doze, the incident on the piazzetta, lost somewhere amid the Piave war memorial and our ride up the hill with fear and shame and who knows what else pressing on me, seemed to come back to me from summers and ages ago, as though I'd biked up to the piazzetta as a little boy before World War I and had returned a crippled ninety-year-old soldier confined to this bedroom that was not even my own, because mine had been given over to a young man who was the light of my eyes.The light of my eyes, I said, light of my eyes, light of the world, that's what you are, light of my life. I didn't know what light of my eyes meant, and part of me wondered where on earth had I fished out such claptrap, but it was nonsense like this that brought tears now, tears I wished to drown in his pillow, soak in his bathing suit, tears I wanted him to touch with the tip of his tongue and make sorrow go away.”
 “Oliver: Do you have any idea how glad I am that we slept together?Elio:I don't know.Oliver: It would be just like you not to know. I just don't want to regret any of it - including what you wouldn't let me talk this morning. I just dread that the thought of having messed you up. I don't want either of us to have to pay one way or another.”
 “I looked at him, feeling quite disarmed, though not threatened. Like people who blush easily but aren't ashamed of it, I knew better than to stifle this feeling, and let myself be swayed by it.”
 “Elio: Are you sory I came?Oliver: I'd holt you and kiss you if I could.”
 “Elio: What were you doing?Oliver: Thinking.Elio: About?Oliver: Things. Going back to the States. The courses I have to teach this fall. The book. You.Elio: Me?Oliver: Me?Elio: No one else?Oliver: No one else. I come here every night and just sit here. Sometimes I spend hours.Elio: All by yourself? I never knew. I thougt...Oliver: I know what you thought. This spot is probably what I'll miss the most. I've been happy in B. I was looking out towards there and thinking that in two weeks I'll be back at Columbia. Elio: All this means is that in ten days when I look out to this spot, you won't be here. i don't know what I'll do then. At least you'll be elsewhere, where there are no memories.”
 “Oliver: I knew I was making you uncomfortable, but I just had to make sure.Elio: So you knew all this time?Oliver: Let's say I was pretty sure.Elio: Why didn't you give me a sign?Oliver: I did. At least I tried.Elio: When?Oliver: After tennis once. I touched you. Just as way of showing I liked you. The way you reacted made me feel I'd almost molested you. I decided to keep my distance.”
 “Right now you may not want to feel anything. Perhaps you never wished to feel anything. And perhaps it's not with me that you'll want to speak about these things. But feel something you did.Look. You had a beautiful friendship. Maybe more than a friendship. And I envy you.”
 “Oliver: But there's the catch: you're still twenty years younger than those gathered around you, which is why I can be twenty-four in a second - I am twenty-four. And if you pushed the parable a few years further up, I could wake up and be younger than my elder son.Elio: What does this say about the life you've lived, then?Oliver: Part of it - just part of it - was a coma, but I prefer to call it a parallel life. It sounds better. Problem is that most of us have - live, that is - more than two parallel lives.”
 “He was baffled to know that apricot trees existed in, of all places, our orchard. On late afternoons, when there was nothing to do in the house, Mafalda would ask him to climb a ladder with a basket and pick those fruits that were almost blushing with shame, she said. He would joke in Italian, pick one out, and ask, Is this one blushing with shame? No, she would say, this one is too young still, youth has no shame, shame comes with age.”
 “«Chiagneva sempe ca durmeva sola,mo dorme co' li muorte accompagnata.She always wept because she slept alone,Now she sleeps among the dead.»I can, from the distance of years now, still think I'm hearing the voices of two young men singing these words in Neapolitan toward daybreak, neither realizing, as they held each other and kissed again and again on the dark lanes of old Rome, that this was the last night they would ever make love again.”
 “We stood there for a few seconds where my father and I had spoken of Oliver once. Now he and I were speaking of my father. Tomorrow, I'll think back on this moment and let the ghosts of their absence maunder in the twilit hour of the day.”
 “I knew exactly what phrase in the piece must have stirred him the first time, and each time I played it I was sending him a little gift, because it was really dedicated to him, as a token of something very beautiful in me that would take no genius to figure out and that urged me to throw in an extra cadenza. Just for him.We were – and he must have recognized the signs long before I did – flirting.”
 “If I put my foot on the floor and pretend that his is just behind the leg of the table, will that foot, like a starship that has turned on its cloaking device, like a ghost summoned by the living, suddenly materialize from its dimple in space and say, I know you've beckoned. Reach and you'll find me?”
 “I lift the corner of my sheets.He shakes his head.Just for a second?Shakes it again. / know myself, he says.I'd heard him use these very same words before. They meant I'm dying to, but may not be able to hold back once I start, so I'd rather not start. What aplomb to tell someone you can't touch him because you know yourself.”
 “Perhaps, in this, as with everything else, because I didn't know how to speak in code, I didn't know how to speak at all.”
 “P.S.: We are not written for one instrument alone; I am not, neither are you.”
 “He's the best person I've known in my life, I said on the night when the tiny fishing boat on which he had sailed out with Anchise early that afternoon failed to return and we were scrambling to find his parents' telephone number in the States in case we had to break the terrible news.”
 “When had they separated us, you and me, Oliver? And why did I know it, and why didn't you?”
 “Ma c’era un qualcosa di gelido e scoraggiante nell’improvvisa distanza che si insinuava tra noi nei momenti più inaspettati. Sembrava quasi che lo facesse apposta; prima mi dava corda, e poi ancora, e poi cancellava anche la minima parvenza di amicizia.”
 “Like the subconscious, like love, like memory, like time itself, like every single one of us, the church is built on the ruins of subsequent restorations, there is no rock bottom, there is no first anything, no last anything, just layers and secret passageways and interlocking chambers.”
 “Perhaps the physical and the metaphorical meanings are clumsy ways of understanding what happens when two beings need, not just to be close together, but to become so totally ductile that each becomes the other. To be who I am because of you. To be who he was because of me.”
 “What's missing in my life?' I was going to say Everything, but corrected myself. 'Friends—the way everyone seems to be fast friends in this place—I wish I had friends like yours, like you.”
 “I had all along, without seeming to, without even admitting it, already been trying—and failing—to win him over.”
 “I always tried to keep him within my field of vision. I never let him drift away from me except when he wasn’t with me. And when he wasn’t with me, I didn’t much care what he did so long as he remained the exact same person with others as he was with me. Don’t let him be someone else when he’s away. Don’t let him be someone I’ve never seen before. Don’t let him have a life other than the life I know he has with us, with me.”
 “No era una llama de pasión ni un fogonazo de rabia, sino algo paralizante, como el fuego de una bomba de racimo que absorbe todo el oxígeno a su alrededor y te deja jadeando porque parece que te han dado una patada en tus partes y una aspiradora te ha succionado cualquier materia viva de tu interior y te has secado la boca, y esperas que nadie hable pues tú no puedes, y rezas para que no te pidan que te muevas porque tu corazón se ha atascado en un latir tan rápido que antes escupiría trozos de cristal que dejar que alguien circule por sus estrechos pasillos. Fuego como el miedo, como el pánico, como un minuto más así y me muero si no llama a mi puerta.”
 “It never occurred to me that if one word from him could make me so happy, another could just as easily crush me, that if I didn’t want to be unhappy, I should learn to beware of such small joys as well.”
 “Fire like fear, like panic, like one more minute of this and I’ll die if he doesn’t knock at my door, but I’d sooner he never knock than knock now.”
 “Knock at my door at night and see if I haven’t already left it ajar for you. Walk inside. There’s always room in my bed.”
 “Cuando volvimos a la librería, dejamos nuestras bicicletas fuera y entramos. Me sentí especial. Como si le mostrase a alguien una capilla privada, una guarida secreta, el lugar donde, como ocurrió con el muro, uno viene a estar solo, a soñar con los demás. Aquí es donde soñé contigo antes de que entrases en mi vida”
 “You are the only person I’d like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist.”
 “If youth must canter, then who’ll do the galloping?”
 “Allí estaba vigilando el legado de mi juventud, las dos mascotas de mi vida, el hambre y el miedo.”
 “The picture would remind Oliver of the morning when I first spoke out. Or of the day when we rode by the berm pretending not to notice it. Or of that day we'd decided to picnic there and had vowed not to touch each other, the better to enjoy lying in bed together the same afternoon. I wanted him to have the picture before his eyes for all time, his whole life, in front of his desk, of his bed, everywhere. Nail it everywhere you go, I thought.”
 “Perhaps, in the end, it is because of time that we suffer.”
 “Any moment now we were going to say goodbye. Suddenly part of my life was going to be taken away from me now and would never be given back.”
 “ice and apathy have ways of instantly repealing all truces and resolutions signed in sunnier moments.”
 “Oliver, I'm happy,' I said. He looked at me in wonderment. 'You're just horny.”
 “How you live your life is your business. But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can’t help but live as though we’ve got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there’s only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it. Right now there’s sorrow. I don’t envy the pain. But I envy you the pain.”
 “Whom else would I ever be able to call by my name?”
 “It’s Oliver,” he said. He had forgotten.”
 “I knew that our minutes were numbered, but I didn't dare count them, just as I knew where all this was headed, but I didn't care to read the signposts. This was a time when I intentionally failed to drop bread crumbs for my return journey; instead, I ate them.”
 “I didn’t much care what he did so long as he remained the exact same person with others as he was with me. Don’t let him be someone else when he’s away. Don’t let him be someone I’ve never seen before. Don’t let him have a life other than the life I know he has with us, with me.”
 “Anticipating sorrow to neutralize sorrow—that’s paltry, cowardly stuff, I told myself, knowing I was an ace practitioner of the craft. And what if it came fiercely? What if it came and didn’t let go, a sorrow that had come to stay, and did to me what longing for him had done on those nights when it seemed there was something so essential missing from my life that it might as well have been missing from my body, so that losing him now would be like losing a hand you could spot in every picture of yourself around the house, but without which you couldn’t possibly be you again. You lose it, as you always knew you would, and were even prepared to; but you can’t bring yourself to live with the loss. And hoping not to think of it, like praying not to dream of it, hurts just the same.Then a strange idea got hold of me: What if my body—just my body, my heart—cried out for his? What to do then?What if at night I wouldn’t be able to live with myself unless I had him by me, inside me? What then?Think of the pain before the pain.I knew what I was doing. Even in my sleep, I knew what I was doing. Trying to immunize yourself, that’s what you’re doing—you’ll end up killing the whole thing this way—sneaky, cunning boy, that’s what you are, sneaky, heartless, cunning boy. I smiled at the voice. The sun was right on me now, and I loved the sun with a near-pagan love for the things of earth. Pagan, that’s what you are. I had never known how much I loved the earth, the sun, the sea—people, things, even art seemed to come second. Or was I fooling myself?”
 “I'd never heard anyone use "later" to say goodbye before. It sounded harsh, curt, and dismissive, spoken with the veiled indifference of people who may not care to see or hear from you again”
 “Küzdöttem a ravaszkás mosolyáért, ami váratlanul felvillant az arcán, valahányszor kitalálta a gondolatomat, pedig valójában a bőrére vágytam, az érintésére.”
 “A fájdalom, a perzselő gyötrődés, az ismeretlenség izgalma, a karnyújtásnyira lévő hallatlan boldogság ígérete, esetlen botladozásom azok körül, akiket talán félreértek, mégsem akarok elveszíteni, így muszáj folyamatosan a szavaik mögöttes értelmét találgatnom, a kétségbeesett ravaszkodás mindazok felé, akikre vágyom és akiknek a vágya után sóvárgok, a paraván, amit magam és a világ közé emeltem, mintha nem csupán egy, de egész sereg rizspapírral borított japán tolóajtó választana el tőle, az igyekezet, amivel az egyáltalán nem rejtélyesnek szánt üzeneteket megfejteni próbálom – mindez azon a nyáron kezdődött, ...”
 “Intelligent? He was more than intelligent. What you two had had everything and nothing to do with intelligence. He was good, and you were both lucky to have found each other, because you too are good.'My father had never spoken of goodness this way before. It disarmed me.'I think he was better than me, Papa.''I'm sure he'd say the same about you, which flatters the two of you.”
 “Nem egyetlen hangszerre íródtunk csupán; te sem és én sem.”
 “How could anyone intuit the manner of someone's thinking unless he himself was a already familiar with this same mode of thinking? How could he perceive so many devious turns in others unless he had practiced them himself?”
 “If you look at him when you're speaking, he always looks away, he's not listening, he's just itching to say things he's rehearsed while you were speaking and wants to say before he forgets them.”
 “You’ll kill me if you stop”
 “Why won’t I believe it tomorrow morning?”
 “Vajon észrevette, hogy nemcsak a kezéhez simultam, de legszívesebben az egész testébe beleolvadtam volna?”
 “I used intentionally compromised words because I knew no one would suspect a false bottom to the archaic pallets of shadings I applied.”
 “Later.”
 “What I didn't realize was that wanting to test desire is nothing more than a ruse to get what we want without admitting that we want it.”
 “I had never heard someone his age say "I know myself". It intimidated me.”
 “Le soleil était sur moi et j'aimais le soleil d'un amour quasi païen pour les choses de la terre. (...) Je n'avais jamais su combien j'aimais la terre, le soleil, la mer. Les gens, les objets, même l'art semblaient venir après.”
 “I've been happy here.”
 “Then one day she stopped writing. And I knew. I just knew. I’ve kept all her letters, you know.”
 “Grow up. I'll see you at midnight.”
 “Bakers and butchers don't compete, I thought.”
 “Then came the giggle, this time for real, as if she had committed a naughty prank but was not in the least bit displeased or surprised by the result. But I am a man, she said.”
 “He would never know, just as the people we buy the newspaper from and then fantasize about all night have no idea that this particular inflection on their face or that tan along their exposed shoulder will give us no end of pleasure when we're alone.”
 “Do you want me man or woman? she/he asked, as if one could scale one’s way back up our phylogenetic tree.”
 “È inciso in ogni canzone che spopolava allora, in ogni romanzo che ho letto durante e dopo il suo soggiorno, in ogni cosa, dal profumo del rosmarino nelle giornate calde al frinire concitato delle cicale di pomeriggio: odori e suoni, in mezzo ai quali ero cresciuto e con cui fino ad allora avevo convissuto ogni anno della mia vita ma che poi d'un tratto riscoprivo eccitanti, arricchiti di una sfumatura particolare, per sempre colorata da ciò che accadde quell'estate.”
 “I want you as intermezzo. So I said, I want you as both, or as in between. “He seemed taken aback. “Naughty, naughty, he said, as though for the first time that night I’d actually managed to shock him with something thoroughly debauched.”
 “Quando ho detto che pensavo non ti piacesse il pezzo, stavo esagerando. In realtà intendevo dire: Pensavo di non piacerti io. Speravo mi avresti convinto del contrario... e l'hai fatto, per un momento. Perché già domani mattina non ne sarò più così sicuro?”
 “let us cuddle up, you and I, when the night is spread out against the sky, and read stories of restless people who always end up alone and hate being alone because it’s always themselves they can’t stand being alone with…”
 “Viajas a un lugar porque tienes una imagen de él y quieres aunarte con todo el país. Luego encuentras que no tienes demasiadas cosas en común con los nativos. No entiendes los signos más simples, esos que habías asumido que toda la humanidad compartía. Decides que todo fue un error, que todo fue un producto de tu imaginación. Luego escarbas un poquito más y encuentras que, a pesar de tus sospechas razonables, aún los deseas a todos, pero no sabes muy bien qué quieres exactamente de ellos, o qué parecen querer ellos de ti, pues da la casualidad de que ellos también te están observando a ti con lo que parece una sola idea en la cabeza.”
 “There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is throughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well. Amor ch'a sull'amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who's loved from loving, Francesca's words in the Inferno.”
 “I'm like you," he said. "I remember everything."I stopped for a second. If you remember everything, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you're just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there's not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “Not that you mean to hurt anyone, but because you’re always changing your mind, always slipping, so no one knows where to find you. You scare me.”
 “But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can’t help but live as though we’ve got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those versions in between. But there’s only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it.”
 “But sitting here I knew I was experiencing the mitigated bliss of those who are too superstitious to claim they may get all they’ve ever dreamed of but are far too grateful not to know it could easily be taken away.”
 “Du bist der einzige Mensch, von dem ich Abschied nehmen möchte, wenn ich sterbe, weil nur dann das, was ich mein Leben nenne, einen Sinn ergibt. Und sollte ich erfahren, dass du gestorben bist, wird mein Leben, so wie ich es kenne, das Ich, das jetzt mit dir spricht, aufhören zu existieren.”
 “Fire like a pleading, that says, please, please, tell me I’m wrong, because it can’t possibly be true for you as well, and if it’s true for you too, then you’re the cruelest man alive.”
 “Por supuesto que él no tenía ni idea de lo que estaba pensando unos minutos antes pero los firmes y redondeados carrillos del albaricoque con el hoyuelo en el medio me recordaron cómo su cuerpo se había estirado de una rama a otra con el culo prieto y redondeado recordando el color y la forma de la fruta. Tocar el albaricoque era como tocarlo a él.”
 “My mother, who hated what she called his Americanisms, ended up calling him Il cauboi—the cowboy. It started as a putdown and soon enough became an endearment, to go along with her other nickname for him, conferred during his first week, when he came down to the dinner table after showering, his glistening hair combed back. La star, she had said, short for la muvi star.”
 “It stung me when he finally came out with it. Only someone who had completely figured me out would have said it. "If not later, when?"My father liked it. "If not later, when?" It echoed Rabbi Hil-lel's famous injunction, "If not now, when?”
 “I could speak about the Haydn for hours—what a lovely friendship this might have been.”
 “He is right, there is no denying it,' said my father under his breath, as though mimicking the part of a cowered Galileo forced to mutter the truth to himself.”
 “Seeing him and thinking he'd join us for dinner tonight only to hear his peremptory Esco taught me there are certain wishes that must be clipped like wings off a thriving butterfly.”
 “Do you really like to read that much?" she asked as we ambled our way casually in the dark toward the piazzetta.I looked at her as if she had asked me if I loved music, or bread and salted butter, or ripe fruit in the summertime. "Don't get me wrong," she said. "I like to read too. But I don't tell anyone." At last, I thought, someone who speaks the truth. I asked her why she didn't tell anyone. "I don't know..." This was more her way of asking for time to think or to hedge before answering, "People who read are hiders. They hide who they are. People who hide don't always like who they are.""Do you hide who you are?""Sometimes. Don't you?""Do I? I suppose.”
 “Grow up. I’ll see you at midnight.”
 “I meant—” “I know what you meant. Sore.” “But did you mind when I—?” I turned my face the other way, as though a chill draft had touched my ear and I wished to avoid having it hit my face. “Do we need to speak about it?” I asked.”
 “It had never occurred to me that what had totally panicked me when he touched me was exactly what startles virgins on being touched for the first time by the person they desire: he stirs nerves in them they never knew existed and that produce far, far more disturbing pleasures than they are used to on their own.”
 “Private, chaste, unfledged, like a blush on an athlete’s face or an instance of dawn on a stormy night. It told me things about him I never knew to ask.”
 “They can never undo it, never unwrite it, never unlive it, or relive it - it's just stuck there like a vision of fireflies on a summer field toward evening that keeps saying, You could have had this instead. But going back is false. Moving ahead is false. Looking the other way is false. Trying to redress all that is false turns out to be just as false. (p.238)”
 “A restaurant overlooking a starlit night sprang to my imagination like something out of an illuminated manuscript from the late Middle Ages.”
 “To feel nothing so as not to feel anything.. What a waste.”
 “Now all I thought of, as we spoke, was that today I’d be walking with Marzia and each time we’d try to sit somewhere I would hurt. The indignity of it.”
 “So I played one of the Goldberg Variations, which made me quiet and contemplative.”
 “Sometimes it was Chiara who had to be eliminated. I knew what she was up to. At my age, her body was more than ready for him. More than mine? I wondered. She was after him, that much was clear, while all I really wanted was one night with him, just one night—one hour, even—if only to determine whether I wanted him for another night after that.”
 “my entire body on fire. Fire like a pleading that says, Please, please, tell me I’m wrong, tell me I've imagined all this, because it can’t possibly be true for you as well , and if it’s true for you too, then you’re the cruelest man alive. This, the afternoon he did finally walk into my room without knocking as if summoned by my prayers and asked how come I wasn't with the others at the beach, and all I could think of saying, though I couldn't bring myself to say it, was, To be with you.To be with you, Oliver.”
 “A thought raced through my mind: Would my descendants know what was spoken on this very piazzetta today? Would anyone? Or would it dissolve into thin air, as I found part of me wishing it would? Would they know how close to the brink their fate stood on this day on this piazzetta? The thought amused me and gave me the necessary distance to face the remainder of this day.”
 “There may have been nothing there, and I might have invented the whole thing. But both of us knew what the other had seen. (p.23)”
 “What is life without this? which was why, in the end, it was I, and not he, who blurted out, not once, but many, many times, You'll kill me if you stop, you'll kill me if you stop, because it was also my way of bringing full circle the dream and the fantasy, me and him, the longed-for words from mouth to mouth, which was when I must have begun using obscenities that he repeated after me, softly at first, till he said, "Call me by your name and I'll call you by my name," which I'd never done in my life before and which, as soon as I said my own name as though it were his, took me to a realm I never shared with anyone in my life before, or since.”
 “Don’t stop. Had he noticed I was ready not just to yield but to mold into his body?”
 “Grazie a te mi piace ciò che sono, ciò che divento quando sei con me, Oliver.”
 “His smell reminded me of Marzia’s, and how she too always seemed to exude that brine of the seashore on those days when there isn’t a breeze on the beaches and all you smell is the raw, ashen scent of scalding sand.”
 “When you least expect it, nature has cunning ways of finding our weakest spot. Just remember I’m here. Right now, you may not want to feel anything. Maybe you’ll never want to feel anything. And, maybe it’s not to me you want to speak about these things, but I feel something you obviously did.Look, you had a beautiful friendship. Maybe more than a friendship. And I envy you.In my place, most parents would hope the whole thing goes away, or pray that their sons land on their feet. But I am not such a parent. We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster that we go bankrupt by the age of 30 and have less to offer each time we start with someone new. But to make yourself feel nothing so as not to feel anything—what a waste!And I’ll say one more thing… it’ll clear the air. I may have come close, but I never have what you two have. Something always held me back or stood in the way. How you live your life is your business. Just remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once, and before you know it, your heart’s worn out. And as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it. Right now, there’s sorrow, pain; don’t kill it, and with it, the joy you’ve felt.”
 “Youth has no shame, shame comes with age.”
 “Se l’amore implied, If this is love, then…”
 “How could anyone intuit the manner of someone thinking unless he himself was already familiar with this same mode of thinking? How could he perceive so many devious turns in others unless he had practiced them himself?”
 “No one my age had ever wanted to be both man and woman-with both men and women.”
 “Just as he probably didn’t care or notice each time my eyes wandered along his bathing suit and tried to make out the contour of what made us brothers in the desert.”
 “His undergraduate years, each time he spoke of them, acquired a limelit, incandescent magic, as if they belonged to another life, a life to which I had no access since it already belonged to the past. Proof of its existence trickled, as it did now, in his ability to mix drinks, or to tell arcane grappas apart, or to speak to all women, or in the mysterious square envelopes addressed to him that arrived at our house from all over the world.I had never envied him the past, nor felt threatened by it. All these facets of his life had the mysterious character of incidents that had occurred in my father's life long before my birth but which continued to resonate into the present. I didn't envy life before me, nor did I ache to travel back to the time when he had been my age.”
 “[ ... ] fa che lo sappia, che veda, che esprima il suo giudizio, se vuole... basta che non lo dica al mondo intero - anche se adesso tu sei il mondo per me, anche se nei tuoi occhi vedo un mondo inorridito e sprezzante. Quel tuo sguardo d'acciaio, Oliver, preferirei morire piuttosto che affrontarlo dopo averti detto tutto.”
 “Tutti e due che mi dicevano di giocare di più a tennis, di andare più spesso a ballare, di conoscere gente, di scoprire da solo perché nella vita gli altri sono indispensabili e non sono solo corpi sconosciuti che ti scivolano accanto.”
 “I was exaggerating when I said I thought you hated the piece. What I meant to say was: I thought you hated me. I was hoping you'd persuade me of the opposite - and you did, for a while. Why won't I believe it tomorrow morning?”
 “E' qui che sognavo te prima che entrassi nella mia vita.”
 “En tu situación, si hay sufrimiento, domínalo, y si queda alguna llama, no la apagues, no seas cruel. La ausencia puede ser algo terrible si nos mantiene despiertos toda la noche, y ver cómo alguien nos olvida antes de lo que hubiésemos deseado no ayuda. Nos desprendemos de tantas cosas propias para poder curarnos lo más rápido posible que a la edad de treinta ya estamos en bancarrota y cada vez tenemos menos que ofrecer cuando empezamos una nueva relación con alguien. Sin embargo, no sentir nada por miedo a sentir algo es un desperdicio.”
 “As I sat there working on transcriptions at my round table in the morning, what I would have settled for was not his friendship, not anything. Just to look up and find him there, suntan lotion, straw hat, red bathing suit, lemonade. To look up and find you there, Oliver. For the day will come soon enough when I'll look up and you'll no longer be there.”
 “Was he my home, then, my homecoming? You are my homecoming. When I'm with you and we're well together, there is nothing more I want. You make me like who I am, who I become when you're with me, Oliver.”
 “—Entonces déjame que te diga una cosa más. Despejará la realidad. Yo puede que me hubiese quedado muy cerca, pero nunca tuve lo que tú has tenido. Siempre hubo algo que me sujetó o que se interpuso en mi camino. La forma de vivir tu vida es cosa tuya. Pero recuerda, nuestros corazones y nuestros cuerpos solo nos los entregan una vez. La mayoría no podemos evitar vivir como si tuviésemos dos vidas, una es la maqueta a escala y la otra es la versión final, y luego están todas las adaptaciones intermedias. Pero solo hay una, y antes de que te des cuenta tienes el corazón gastado, y en lo que respecta a tu cuerpo hay un punto en el que nadie se fija, y mucho menos quiere acercarse a él. Ahora sientes pena. No envidio ese dolor. Pero sí envidio que puedas sentirlo ahora. Respiró hondo. —Puede que nunca volvamos a hablar de esto. Y espero que no me tengas en cuenta que lo hayamos hecho. Habría sido un padre horrible si algún día tú hubieses querido hablar conmigo y yo hubiese dejado la puerta cerrada o no lo suficientemente abierta.”
 “What I may have wanted instead, from the moment he stepped out of the cab to our farewell in Rome, was what al humans ask of one another, what makes life livable. It would have to come from him first. Then possibly from me. There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is thoroughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well. Amor ch’a null’amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who’s loved from loving, Francesca’s words in the Inferno. Just wait and be hopeful. I was hopeful, though perhaps this was what I had wanted all along. To wait forever.”
 “I think I’m done,” I said. “Let’s see if more doesn’t come out.” Sure enough, another heave brought out more of tonight’s food and drink. “Don’t you chew your peas?” he asked, smiling at me.”
 “Look," he interrupted. "You had a beautiful friendship. Maybe more than a friendship. And I envy you. In my place, most parents would hope the whole thing goes away, or pray that their sons land on their feet soon enough. But I am not such a parent. In you place, if there is pain, nurse it, and if there is a flame, don't snuff it out, don't be brutal with it. Withdrawal can be a terrible thing when it keeps us awake at night, and watching others forget us sooner that we'd want to be forgotten in no better. We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with something new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything - what a waste!”
 “drawing”
 “Muscles are firm, not a straight body in these statues. They're all curved, sometimes impossibly curved, and so nonchalant hence their ageless ambiguity as if they're daring you to desire them.”
 “I always tried to keep him within my field of vision. I never let him drift away from me except when he wasn't with me. And when he wasn't with me, I didn't much care what he did so long as he remained the exact same person with others as he was with me. Don’t let him be someone else when he’s away. Don’t let him be someone I've never seen before. Don’t let him have a life other than the life I know he has with us, with me. Don’t let me lose him.”
 “When I’m with you and we’re well together, there is nothing more I want. You make me like who I am, who I become when you’re with me, Oliver.”
 “To look up and find you there, Oliver. For the day will come soon enough when I'll look up and you'll no longer be there.”
 “Wait. Are you saying what I think you're saying?''Ye-es.' Now that I had spilled the beans I could take on the laid-back, mildly exasperated air with which a felon, who's surrendered to the police, confesses yet once more to yet one more police officer how he robbed the store.”
 “Then came that July Sunday afternoon when our house suddenly emptied, and we were the only ones there, and fire tore through my guts—because “fire” was the first and easiest word that came to me later that same evening when I tried to make sense of it in my diary. I’d waited and waited in my room pinioned to my bed in a trancelike state of terror and anticipation. Not a fire of passion, not a ravaging fire, but something paralyzing, like the fire of cluster bombs that suck up the oxygen around them and leave you panting because you’ve been kicked in the gut and a vacuum has ripped up every living lung tissue and dried your mouth, and you hope nobody speaks, because you can’t talk, and you pray no one asks you to move, because your heart is clogged and beats so fast it would sooner spit out shards of glass than let anything else flow through its narrowed chambers. Fire like fear, like panic, like one more minute of this and I’ll die if he doesn’t knock at my door, but I’d sooner he never knock than knock now.”
 “How you live your life is your business. But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can't help but live as though we've got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, and then there are all those version in between. But there's only one, and before you know it, your heart is worn out, and, as for your body, there comes a point when no one looks at it, much less wants to come near it. Right now there's sorrow. I don't envy the pain. But I envy you the pain.”
 “Todo el mundo atraviesa un periodo de traviamento: cuando tomamos, por poner un ejemplo, un camino diferente en la vida, la otra via. El propio Dante lo hizo. Algunos se recuperan, otros fingen hacerlo, otros nunca vuelven, algunos se rajan incluso antes de empezar y otros, por el miedo a no tomar decisiones, se encuentran siguiendo un camino equivocado durante toda su vida.”
 “It never occurred to me that if one word of him could make me so happy, another could just as easily crush me, that if I didn't want to be unhappy, I should learn to beware of such small joys as well.”
 “I didn't know what I was afraid of, nor why I worried so much, nor why this thing that could so easily cause panic felt like hope sometimes and, like hope in the darkest moments, brought such joy, unreal joy, joy with a noose tied around it. The thud my heart gave when I saw him unannounced both terrified and thril ed me. I was afraid when he showed up, afraid when he failed to, afraid when he looked at me, more frightened yet when he didn't. The agony wore me out in the end”
 “We made our way deeper into an extremely quiet alley, then through another, as if drawn through these unreal and sticky goblin lanes that seemed to lead to a different, nether realm you entered in a state of stupor and wonderment.”
 “[...] it would finally dawn on us both that he was more me than I had ever been myself, because when he became me and I became him in bed so many years ago, he was and would forever remain, long after every forked road in life had done its work, my brother, my friend, my father, my son, my husband, my lover, myself.”
 “And the worst thing is that, with all your experience and your sense of irony and your ability to overcome shyness wherever it threatens to crop up, you feel totally stranded. I didn't know their language, didn't know the language of their hearts, didn't even know my own. I saw veils everywhere: what I wanted, what I didn't know I wanted, what I didn't want to know I wanted, what I'd always known I wanted. This is either a miracle. Or it is hell.”
 “There’ll never be a friendship, I thought, this is nothing, just a minute of grace. Zwischen Immer und Nie. Zwischen Immer und Nie. Between always and never. Celan.”
 “We spoke about everything but. But we've always known, and not saying anything now confirmed it all the more. We had found the stars, you an I. And this is given once only.”
 “We spoke about everything but. But we've always known, and not saying anything now confirmed it all the more. We had found the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “What a world this was. She was more than twice my age but I could have made love to her this minute and wept with her.”
 “But that moment of what seemed like bliss now when we’d walked our bikes on the piazzetta both before and after our talk belonged to another time segment, as though it had happened to another me in some other life that was not too different from my own, but removed enough to make the few seconds that kept us apart seem like light-years away.”
 “But what a solace to have my head held, what selfless courage to hold someone's head while he's vomiting. Would I have had it in me to do the same for him?”
 “and even if this is all he is willing to give, I’l take it—I’l settle for less, even, if only to live with these threadbare scraps.”
 “lemonade, suntan lotion, books, espadrilles, sunglasses, colored pens, and music, which he listened to with headphones, so that it was impossible to speak to him unless he was speaking to you first.”
 “I smiled right away, because I caught his attempt to backpedal, which instantly brought complicit smiles to our faces, like a passionate wet kiss in the midst of a conversation between two individuals who, without thinking, had reached for each other’s lips through the scorching red desert both had intentionally placed between them so as not to grope for each other’s nakedness.”
 “What made me blush in the end was not the natural embarrassment of the moment when I could tell he’d caught me trying to hold his gaze only then to let mine scamper to safety; what made me blush was the thrilling possibility, unbelievable as I wanted it to remain, that he might actually like me, and that he liked me in just the way I liked him.”
 “It would never have occurred to him that in placing the apricot in my palm he was giving me his ass to hold or that, in biting the fruit, I was also biting into that part of his body that must have been fairer than the rest because it never apricated—and near it, if I dared to bite that far, his apricock.”
 “Seeing you here is like waking from a twenty-year coma ... Your face in the mirror is as white as Rip Van Winkle's. But here's the catch: you're still twenty years younger than those gathered around you, which is why I can be twenty-four in a second -- I am twenty-four.”
 “This is heaven.” And I wouldn’t hear him say another word for at least an hour. There was nothing I loved more in life than to sit at my table and pore over my transcriptions while he lay on his belly marking pages he’d pick up every morning from Signora Milani, his translator in B. “Listen to this,” he’d sometimes say, removing his headphones, breaking the oppressive silence of those long sweltering summer mornings. “Just listen to this drivel.” And he’d proceed to read aloud something he couldn’t believe he had written months earlier.”
 “There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is thoroughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well. Amor ch’a null’amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who's loved from loving, Francesca's words in the Inferno. Just wait and be hopeful. I was hopeful, though this was perhaps what I had wanted all along. To wait forever.”
 “By shouting his words I was fleshing them out and giving them longer life, as though they had a life of their own now, a longer and louder life that no one could govern, like the life of echoes once they've bounced off the cliffs of B. and gone to dive by the distant shoals where Shelley’s boat slammed into the squall.”
 “hay ciertos deseos que deben ser sujetados con alfileres como las alas de una radiante mariposa.”
 “But down below along the rocky shore, in the moonlight, I caught sight of him.”
 “But sitting here I knew I was experiencing the mitigated bliss of those who are too superstitious to claim they may get all they've ever dreamed of but are too grateful not to know it could easily be taken away.”
 “I folded the piece of lined paper and slipped it under his door with the resigned apprehension of Caesar crossing the Rubicon. There was no turning back now. Iacta alea est, Caesar had said, the die is cast.”
 “...look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “My pluperfect lover”
 “I knew I was experiencing the mitigated bliss of those who are too superstitious to claim they may get all they've ever dreamed of but are far too grateful not to know it could easily be taken away.”
 “But I was past humiliation. After weeks of wanting and waiting and—let’s face it—begging and being made to hope and fight every access of hope, I’d be devastated. How do you go back to sleep after that? Slink back into your room and pretend to open a book and read yourself to sleep?”
 “Cuando estoy contigo y estamos bien juntos no deseo nada más. Consigues que me guste quién soy y en lo que me convierto cuando estás conmigo, Oliver. Si existe la verdad en el mundo, esta miente cuando estoy contigo, y si algún día encuentro el coraje para decirte mi verdad, recuérdame que encienda una vela de agradecimiento en todos los altares de Roma.”
 “Then he neglected tennis and took up bike rides with her and her friends in the late afternoons in the hill towns farther west along the coast. One day, when there was one too many of them to go biking, Oliver turned to me and asked if I minded letting Mario borrow my bike since I wasn’t using it. It threw me back to age six. I shrugged my shoulders, meaning, Go ahead, I couldn’t care less. But no sooner had they left than I scrambled upstairs and began sobbing into my pillow.”
 “...but I need to know, and better with you than anyone else. I want to know your body, I want to know how you feel, I want to know you, and through you, me.”
 “she would say, this one is too young still, youth has no shame, shame comes with age.”
 “But when I lay in bed and felt uncomfortable, it came back on the double as if to score a point each time I thought I’d felt the last of it. I had known it would hurt. What I hadn't expected was that the hurt would find itself coiled and twisted into sudden pangs of guilt.”
 “Vedi qualcuno, anzi, non lo vedi realmente, è dietro le quinte. Oppure lo noti, ma non scatta nulla, non ti «prende», e prima ancora che tu sia consapevole della sua presenza, o che qualcosa ti turba, le sei settimane che ti sono state offerte sono quasi passate e lui è partito o poco ci manca e ti affanni per accettare una cosa che, a tua insaputa, ti cresce sotto il naso da giorni e presenta tutti i sintomi di ciò che puoi solo chiamare Lo voglio. Come ho fatto a non accorgermene? ti domandi. So riconoscere il desiderio quando lo vedo… eppure stavolta te lo sei fatto scappare. Cercavo il sorrisetto malizioso che d’un tratto gli illuminava il viso ogni volta che mi leggeva nel pensiero, ma l’unica cosa che volevo davvero era pelle, solo pelle.”
 “E dunque lui era la mia casa, il mio ritorno a casa? Tu sei il mio ritorno a casa. Quando sono con te e insieme stiamo bene, ecco, non voglio altro. Grazie a te mi piace ciò che sono, ciò che divento quando sei con me, Oliver. Se esiste una verità al mondo, è quando sono con te che la scopro.”
 “He had, it took me a while to realize, four personalities depending on which bathing suit he was wearing. Knowing which to expect gave me the illusion of a slight advantage. Red: bold, set in his ways, very grown-up, almost gruff and ill-tempered-- stay away. Yellow: sprightly, buoyant, funny, not without barbs-- don't give in too easily; might turn to red in no time. Green, which he seldom wore: acquiescent, eager to learn, eager to speak, sunny--why wasn't he always like this? Blue: the afternoon he stepped into my room from the balcony, the day he massaged my shoulder, or when he picked up my glass and placed it right next to me.”
 “«E quali sarebbero le cose che contano davvero, sentiamo?»Stava facendo il finto tonto?«Lo sai bene. Tra tutti, ormai proprio tu dovresti avere capito.»Silenzio.«Perché mi stai dicendo questo?»«Perché pensavo dovessi saperlo.»«Perché pensavi dovessi saperlo.» Ripeté le mie parole lentamente, cercando di coglierne appieno il significato, se le rigirava in bocca, come se ripeterle lo aiutasse a guadagnare tempo. Dovevo battere il ferro finché era caldo, lo sapevo.«Perché voglio che tu sappia!» esclamai di getto. «Perché non potrei dirlo a nessun altro, se non a te.»Ecco, l’avevo detto.”
 “The sun was right on me now, and I loved the sun with a near pagan love for things of the earth. Pagan, that's what you are.”
 “Ogni cellula del mio corpo crede che ogni cellula del tuo non debba mai morire, mai, me se proprio deve, che muoia allora dentro il mio corpo.”
 “What else is there to do but to respond in kind when someone touches your toes with his toes?”
 “Just wait and be hopeful.”
 “E dimmi che non stavo sognando quella notte, quando sentii un rumore sul pianerottolo vicino alla porta e all’improvviso mi resi conto che c’era qualcuno in camera mia, seduto ai piedi del letto e pensava, pensava, pensava e poi iniziò ad avvicinarsi e alla fine si sdraiò, non accanto a me, ma sopra di me, mentre io ero supino, e mi piaceva tanto che, per non rischiare di fargli capire che mi aveva svegliato o che cambiasse idea e se ne andasse, finsi di dormire beato, e intanto pensavo: Questo non è, non può essere, speriamo non sia un sogno, perché le parole che mi vennero in mente, mentre stringevo più forte gli occhi, furono: È come tornare a casa, sì, è come tornare a casa dopo essere stato via per anni, tra lestrigoni e troiani, è come tornare in un luogo dove sono tutti uguali a te, dove la gente sa, lo sa e basta… Tornare a casa, come quando ogni cosa va al posto giusto e d’improvviso ti rendi conto che per diciassette anni non hai fatto altro che trafficare con la combinazione sbagliata. E fu allora che decisi di farti capire senza spostarmi, senza muovere un singolo “muscolo del corpo, che se avessi insistito ero pronto a cedere, avevo già ceduto, ero tuo, tutto tuo, ma all’improvviso non c’eri più, e se era sembrato troppo vero per essere un sogno, capii che da quel giorno in poi avrei voluto solo che facessi ciò che mi avevi fatto nel sonno.”
 “He stood still, dropped his hand with the bundle of unsent letters still in it, and simply stood there staring at me, shaking his head. “Do you have any idea how glad I am we slept together?”
 “I needed him as far away as possible if I was to feel better and forget—but I needed him close by in case this thing took a turn for the worse and there was no one to turn to.”
 “I had worshiped them all once. I had touched them the way a civet rubs itself on the objects it covets. They’d been mine for a night. I didn't want them now.”
 “Al mattino, seduto al mio tavolo a lavorare alle mie trascrizioni, ciò di cui mi sarei accontentato non era la sua amicizia, né altro. Mi bastava alzare lo sguardo e trovarlo lì, crema solare, cappello di paglia, costume da bagno rosso, limonata. Sì, Oliver, alzare lo sguardo e trovarti lì. Perché troppo presto verrà il giorno in cui alzerò lo sguardo e non ci sarai più.”
 “Avevo immaginato mille volte il momento in cui l’avrei perso, non solo per prevenire la sofferenza, assumendola in anticipo a piccole dosi, ma anche per vedere, come fa chi è superstizioso, se la mia disposizione a immaginarmi il peggio potesse indurre il fato a addolcire il colpo. Come i soldati addestrati a combattere di notte, vivevo al buio, così quando fossero calate le tenebre non sarei stato cieco. Sperimentare il dolore per attenuare il dolore. Rimedio omeopatico.”
 “Ciò di cui non mi rendevo conto era che voler mettere alla prova il desiderio non è altro che un sotterfugio per ottenere ciò che vogliamo senza poterlo ammettere.”
 “...Neither realizing, as they held each other and kissed again and again on the dark lanes of old Rome, that this was the last night they would ever make love again.”
 “Sick and twisted.""Sick and twisted and very, very sad.""I've never seen you like this.""I want Billowy too. And the espadrilles. And the sunglasses. And you.”
 “It was just that I couldn’t allow myself to hope I’d ever see him wearing no bathing suit at all.”
 “Quando arrivi a cent’anni, di sicuro hai imparato a superare la perdita e il dolore… o forse ti perseguitano fino all’ultimo? A cent’anni, si dimenticano i fratelli, si dimenticano i figli, si dimenticano le persone care, nessuno ricorda più nulla, perfino i più straziati dal dolore si dimenticano di ricordare. Le madri e i padri sono morti da tempo. C’è qualcuno che ricorda ancora?”
 “Instead, I squirreled away small things so that in the lean days ahead glimmers from the past might bring back the warmth. I began, reluctantly, to steal from the present to pay off debts I knew I’d incur in the future.”
 “A questo punto, dove saremmo andati a finire? Cos’altro c’era da aggiungere? E cosa sarebbe accaduto la prossima volta che avessimo finto di non parlare, senza più essere sicuri che la freddezza tra noi fosse tutta una messinscena?”
 “Non ho dimenticato, rimarrà sempre tra noi, anche se non ne verrà fuori niente”
 “Avevamo trovato le stelle, tu e io. E questo capita una volta sola nella vita.”
 “I was happy, and this was all that mattered, with others, without others, I was happy.”
 “I could never think of him in New England. When I lived in New England for a while and was separated from him by no more than fifty miles, I continued to imagine him as stuck in Italy somewhere, unreal and spectral.”
 “What we had between us was the total transparency that exists among friends only.Perhaps we were friends first and lovers second.But then perhaps this is what lovers are.”
 “Se ti ricordi tutto, volevo dirgli, e se sei davvero come me, allora domani prima di partire o quando sei pronto per chiudere la portiera del taxi e hai già salutato gli altri e non c’è più nulla da dire in questa vita, allora, una volta soltanto, girati verso di me, anche per scherzo, o perché ci hai ripensato, e, come avevi già fatto allora, guardami negli occhi, trattieni il mio sguardo, e chiamami col tuo nome.”
 “Sapere che era tutta una finta avrebbe cambiato le cose se avessimo smesso un’altra volta di parlarci?Probabilmente no. Forse avrebbe scavato un solco ancora più profondo, perché sarebbe stato difficile per entrambi credere che fossimo così stupidi da fingere che quanto ci eravamo ormai confessati fosse tutta una messinscena.”
 “I really wanted was one night with him, just one night—one hour, even—if only to determine whether I wanted him for another night after that. What”
 “Mi venne da sorridere, perché colsi il suo tentativo di fare marcia indietro, e all’istante ci spuntò un sorriso complice, come un bacio appassionato nel bel mezzo di una conversazione, fra due persone che senza “saperlo hanno cercato quelle labbra, nel torrido deserto rosso che di proposito avevano frapposto tra loro per non tendere le mani verso il corpo nudo dell’altro.”
 “I’d never traveled in this world. But I loved this world. And I would love it even more once I learned how to speak its language—for it was my language, a form of address where our deepest longings are smuggled in banter, not because it is safer to put a smile on what we fear may shock, but because the inflections of desire, of all desire in this new world I’d stepped into, could only be conveyed in play.”
 “Bad allergy, I’d said. Me too, he replied. We probably have the same one.”
 “Per te in silenzio, da qualche parte in Italia a metà degli anni Ottanta.”
 “I know you’re not sleeping, they’d say, and gently press the soft, overripe peach on my cock till I’d pierced the fruit along the crease that reminded me so much of Oliver’s ass. The idea seized me and would not let go.”
 “He was okay with himself, the way he was okay with his body, with his looks, with his antic backhand, with his choice of books, music, films, friends. He was okay with losing his prized Mont Blanc pen.”
 “far as”
 “Anzi, volevo che un giorno qualcuno curiosasse tra i suoi libri, aprisse il volumetto dell’Armance e gli chiedesse: Chi è che stava in silenzio, da qualche parte in Italia a metà degli anni Ottanta? E poi avrei voluto che provasse qualcosa di più acuto del dolore e più feroce del rimorso, forse addirittura pietà per me, perché quella mattina in libreria avrei accettato anche la pietà, se quella era l’unica cosa che aveva da darmi, se la pietà l’avesse spinto a mettermi un braccio intorno alle spalle, e dietro a quest’impeto di compassione e rimorso, sospesa come una vaga ed erotica corrente sotterranea che scorreva da anni, volevo che ricordasse quella mattina sulla collina di Monet quando l’avevo baciato, non la prima, ma la seconda volta, e gli avevo offerto la mia saliva perché disperatamente volevo la sua.”
 “This was the sum of everything I’d been in my life—and more: who I am when I sing and stir-fry vegetables for my family and friends on Sunday afternoons; who I am when I wake up on freezing nights and want nothing more than to throw on a sweater, rush to my desk, and write about the person I know no one knows I am; who I am when I crave to be naked with another naked body, or when I crave to be alone in the world; who I am when every part of me seems miles and centuries apart and each swears it bears my name.”
 “Ciò che volevo preservare era la sua torbida voce ansimante, che rimase con me per giorni e mi diceva che se nei sogni avessi potuto averlo così ogni notte della mia vita, allora la mia vita l’avrei basata sui sogni, tralasciando tutto il resto.”
 “Fa che l'estate non finisca mai, che lui non se ne vada mai, che suoni all'infinito la stessa musica, non chiedo molto e giuro che poi non chiederò più nulla.”
 “Ma lì seduto sapevo che stavo provando la gioia contenuta di chi è troppo superstizioso per affermare di essere a un passo da ciò che ha sempre sognato, ma è fin troppo riconoscente da non intuire che con la stessa facilità potrebbe perderlo.”
 “The peach was soft and firm, and when I finally succeeded in tearing it apart with my cock, I saw that its reddened core reminded me not just of an anus but of a vagina, so that holding each half in either hand firmly against my cock, I began to rub myself, thinking of no one and of everyone, including the poor peach, which had no idea what was being done to it except that it had to play along and probably in the end took some pleasure in the act as well, till I thought I heard it say to me, Fuck me, Elio, fuck me harder, and after a moment, Harder, I said! while I scanned my mind for images from Ovid—wasn’t there a character who had turned into a peach”
 “But, as Nietzsche says, my friends, I have given you the moral before the tale.”
 “I began to wonder what all this talk of San Clemente had to do with us—how we move through time, how time moves through us, how we change and keep changing and come back to the same. One could even grow old and not learn a thing but this. That was the poet’s lesson, I presume.”
 “Salendo le scale, cercai di immaginarmi quando le avrei scese l’indomani mattina. Magari sarei stato un’altra persona. [...] Oppure sarei rimasto la stessa identica persona che stava salendo le scale ora, nulla in me sarebbe cambiato, nessun dubbio risolto? O magari non sarebbe successo niente.”
 “Dopo settimane trascorse a desiderare e aspettare e – ammettiamolo – supplicare e sperare e poi soffocare ogni moto di speranza, ne sarei uscito devastato. Come fai a rimetterti a dormire dopo una cosa simile?”
 “The story so aroused me that practically without warning the orgasm was almost upon me. I sensed I could just stop then and there or, with one more stroke, I could come, which I finally did, carefully, aiming the spurt into the reddened core of the open peach as if in a ritual of insemination.”
 “But remember, our hearts and our bodies are given to us only once. Most of us can't help but live as though we've got two lives to live, one is the mockup, the other the finished version, (...)”
 “All’improvviso mi parve l’unica cosa che volevo davvero nella vita. E mi tirava per il braccio, si affannava verso di me con tanta sollecitudine, come qualcuno che me l’aveva già sussurrato un paio di volte nel sonno ma, vedendo che non mi svegliavo, mi aveva dato una pacca sulla spalla e adesso mi incoraggiava a trovare ogni scusa possibile per non bussare alla sua finestra quella notte. Sentii quel pensiero scorrermi addosso come l’acqua sulla vetrina di un fioraio, come una fresca crema idratante dopo la doccia al termine di una giornata sotto il sole, e anche se adori il sole, ancora di più adori quel balsamo. Come il torpore, il pensiero ti prende prima alle estremità, poi ti penetra nel resto del corpo, ti fornisce ogni genere di argomentazione possibile, dalle più sciocche – ormai stanotte è troppo tardi per fare qualunque cosa – a quelle serie – poi come farai a guardare in faccia gli altri, a guardare in faccia te stesso?”
 “Prima lui c'era, poi non c'era più. Nient'altro era cambiato. Io non ero cambiato. Il mondo non era cambiato. Tuttavia nulla sarebbe mai più stato uguale. Tutto ciò che resta sono sogni e strani ricordi.”
 “Look, it’s very nice of you—and I appreciate it. But don’t.” His rebuke told me he wasn’t going to play my game. It put me in my place.”
 “Non ho paura di nulla, perché allora sono così spaventato? Perché? Perché ho paura di tutto, perché paura e desiderio fanno a gara per confondersi l’uno con l’altra, per confondere me,”
 “how we move through time, how time moves through us, how we change and keep changing and come back to the same. One could even grow old and not learn a thing but this. That was the poet’s lesson, I presume.”
 “In my place, most parents would hope the whole thing goes away, or pray that their sons land on their feet soon enough. But I am not such a parent. In your place, if there is pain, nurse it, and if there is a flame, don’t snuff it out, don’t be brutal with it. Withdrawal can be a terrible thing when it keeps us awake at night, and watching others forget us sooner than we’d want to be forgotten is no better. We rip out so much of ourselves to be cured of things faster than we should that we go bankrupt by the age of thirty and have less to offer each time we start with someone new. But to feel nothing so as not to feel anything—what a waste!”
 “And on that evening when we grow older still we’ll speak about these two young men as though they were two strangers we met on the train and whom we admire and want to help along. And we’ll want to call it envy, because to call it regret would break our hearts”
 “Ero all’apice di qualcosa, ma volevo anche che questo qualcosa durasse per sempre, perché sapevo di avere raggiunto un punto di non ritorno.”
 “You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist. Sometimes I have this awful picture of waking up in our house in B. and, looking out to the sea, hearing the news from the waves themselves, He died last night. We missed out on so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours.”
 “Da questo momento, pensai, da questo momento. come mai nella mia vita, avevo la netta sensazione di essere arrivato a un qualcosa che mi era molto caro, di volerlo per sempre, di essere me stesso, me stesso, me stesso, me stesso e nessun altro, me stesso e basta, di sentire in ogni brivido che mi correva lungo le braccia qualcosa di totalmente alieno eppure nient’affatto estraneo, come se tutto ciò fosse stato parte di me da sempre, ma poi l’avessi perso e adesso lui mi avesse aiutato a ritrovarlo. Il sogno era esatto, era come tornare a casa, come chiedersi: Dove sono stato finora?, che poi era un altro modo di chiedere: Quando io ero bambino, Oliver, tu dov’eri?, che poi era un altro modo ancora per chiedere: Che cos’è la vita senza questo?”
 “He loved the sticky taste. What had I done? I told him and pointed to the bruised evidence sitting on my desk. “Let me see.” He stood up and asked if I’d left it for him. Perhaps I had. Or had I simply put off thinking how to dispose of it? “Is this what I think it is?” I nodded naughtily in mock shame.”
 “We missed out on so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours.”
 “Be warned. I had rehearsed losing him not just to ward off suffering by taking it in small doses beforehand, but, as al superstitious people do, to see if my willingness to accept the very worst might not induce fate to soften its blow. Like soldiers trained to fight by night, I lived in the dark so as not to be blinded when darkness came. Rehearse the pain to dul the pain.”
 “Se ti fermi mi uccidi, se ti fermi mi uccidi, perché era anche il mio modo di chiudere il cerchio tra sogno e fantasia, tra me e lui, parole tanto agognate, dalla sua bocca alla mia e di nuovo alla sua, parole che passavano di bocca in bocca, e forse è stato allora che iniziai a pronunciare oscenità che lui ripeté dopo di me, prima con dolcezza, finché mi disse: «Chiamami col tuo nome e io ti chiamerò col mio», non l’avevo mai fatto prima e, non appena pronunciai il mio nome come se fosse il suo, mi ritrovai trasportato in una dimensione che non avevo mai condiviso con nessuno prima, né mai avrei condiviso dopo.”
 “Because it would be very wrong."Would"? (I asked).”
 “We stopped talking. Even when we shared the same spot in the morning, talk was at best idle and stopgap. You couldn’t even call it chitchat. It didn’t upset him. He probably hadn’t given it another thought.”
 “Forse cercare significati fisici e metaforici è una maniera maldestra per capire cosa succede quando due esseri umani hanno bisogno non solo di stare insieme, ma di diventare così totalmente duttili che ognuno si trasforma nell’altro. Essere ciò che sono grazie a te. Essere ciò che era grazie a me.”
 “and after making me want him more than I thought I could ever want another living soul, gently, softly, and, with the kindness one Jew extends to another, work his way into my body, gently and softly, after heeding the words I’d been rehearsing for days now, Please, don’t hurt me, which meant, Hurt me all you want.”
 “Parce que c’était lui, parce que c’était moi,” my father added, quoting Montaigne’s all-encompassing explanation for his friendship with Etienne de la Boétie. (Because it was he, because it was I)”
 “Maybe every other sorrow I'd known in life suddenly decided to converge on this very one. I had to fight it off. And if he didn't see, it's probably because he himself was not immune to it.”
 “Mi chiesi se prima o poi ci si faceva l’abitudine. O forse a furia di accumulare debiti di malessere alla fine si trova un modo per ripagarli tutti in una volta, riportando in pareggio il bilancio delle emozioni? Oppure la presenza dell’altro, che fino a ieri mattina sembrava quasi un intruso, diventa perfino più necessaria perché ci protegge dal nostro inferno individuale, tanto che la persona che ci tormenta di giorno è la stessa che ci dà sollievo la notte?”
 “Ma avevo colto l’avvertimento e, come una giuria che ha ascoltato una deposizione inammissibile prima che sia cancellata dal verbale, all’improvviso mi resi conto che eravamo in un tempo preso in prestito, che il tempo è sempre in prestito e che la banca che ce l’ha concesso viene a riscuotere la rata proprio quando siamo meno preparati a pagare e, anzi, ce ne servirebbe dell’altro. All’improvviso cominciai a scattargli mentalmente una serie di fotografie, raccolsi le briciole di pane che cadevano dal nostro tavolo e le misi da parte per il mio nascondiglio e, con mia vergogna, compilai elenchi: lo scoglio, la collina, il letto, il rumore del posacenere. Lo scoglio, la collina, il letto… Quanto avrei voluto essere come quei soldati nei film che finiscono i proiettili e buttano via la pistola come se non sapessero più cosa farsene, o come chi attraversa il deserto e, invece di razionare l’acqua, cede alla sete e si scola tutta la borraccia, abbandonandola vuota dietro di sé. Io, invece, accumulavo piccoli tesori che, nei giorni di magra che mi attendevano dopo i fasti del passato, avrebbero potuto ricreare quel calore. Con riluttanza, cominciai a rubacchiare dal presente per poter saldare debiti che sapevo avrei contratto in futuro. Anche questo era un crimine, ne ero ben consapevole, come chiudere le imposte nei pomeriggi assolati. Ma sapevo anche che, nel mondo superstizioso di Mafalda, immaginarsi il peggio era un modo sicuro per evitare che accadesse. Ma quando una sera andammo a fare una passeggiata e Oliver mi disse che presto sarebbe tornato a casa, mi resi conto di quanto erano state futili le mie previsioni. Le bombe non cadono mai nello stesso punto; questa, nonostante le mie premonizioni, aveva colpito proprio il mio nascondiglio.”
 “Prima lui c’era, poi non c’era più. Nient’altro era cambiato. Io non ero cambiato. Il mondo non era cambiato. Tuttavia nulla sarebbe mai più stato uguale. Tutto ciò che resta sono sogni e strani ricordi.”
 “A distanza di anni ormai, mi sembra ancora di sentire le voci di due giovani che cantano queste parole in napoletano sul fare dell’alba, senza rendersi conto, mentre si abbracciano e si baciano nei vicoli bui di Roma, che sarebbe stata l’ultima notte in cui avrebbero fatto l’amore.«Andiamo a San Clemente, domani» gli proposi.«Domani è oggi» mi rispose.”
 “n vita mia non avevo mai accolto il sonno con tanta serenità. Per il dolore, avrei avuto tutto il tempo che volevo, pensai. Arriverà, probabilmente in sordina, come avevo sentito dire accadesse in questi casi, e non se ne andrà tanto facilmente.”
 “Anticipare la sofferenza per neutralizzare la sofferenza: che meschinità, roba da codardi, dissi tra me, sapendo di essere un maestro in quell’arte. E se invece si fosse abbattuta con violenza? E se non avesse più mollato la presa, una sofferenza venuta per restare, e se mi avesse fatto ciò che aveva fatto il desiderio per Oliver durante quelle notti in cui sembrava che mi mancasse qualcosa di essenziale nella vita, come se mi mancasse una parte del corpo, al punto che perderlo adesso sarebbe stato come perdere una mano che vedevi in ciascuna delle tue fotografie in giro per casa, ma senza la quale non potevi più essere te stesso? L’hai persa, e che poteva accadere l’hai sempre saputo, anzi, ti eri addirittura preparato; ma non riesci a conviverci con questa perdita. E sperare di non pensarci, così come pregare di non sognarla, fa ugualmente male.”
 “I wanted him to remember the morning on Monet's berm when I'd kissed him not the first but the second time and given him my spit in his mouth because I so desperately wanted his in mine.”
 “E se di notte non riuscirò a stare bene senza avere lui accanto a me? Allora?Pensare al dolore prima del dolore.Sapevo cosa stavo facendo. Perfino nel sonno, sapevo cosa stavo facendo. Cerchi di renderti immune, ecco cosa stai facendo – in questo modo finirai per uccidere tutto – sei scaltro, astuto, ecco cosa sei, scaltro, senza cuore, astuto.”
 “I was thinking, instead, of Emily Brontë’s words: because “he’s more myself than I am.”
 “Al posto tuo, se il dolore c’è, lo farei sfogare, e se la fiamma è accesa, non la spegnerei, cercherei di non essere troppo duro. Chiudersi in se stessi può essere una cosa terribile quando ci tiene svegli di notte, e vedere che gli altri ci dimenticano prima di quanto vorremmo non è tanto meglio. Rinunciamo a tanto di noi per guarire più in fretta del dovuto, che finiamo in bancarotta a trent’anni, e ogni volta che ricominciamo con una persona nuova abbiamo meno da offrire. Ma non provare niente per non rischiare di provare qualcosa… che spreco!»”
 “Ma ricordati, cuore e corpo ci vengono dati una volta sola. La maggior parte di noi non riesce a fare a meno di vivere come se avesse a disposizione due vite, la versione temporanea e quella definitiva, più tutte quelle che stanno in mezzo. Invece di vita ce n’è una sola, e prima che tu te ne accorga ti ritrovi col cuore esausto e arriva un momento in cui nessuno lo guarda più, il tuo corpo, e tantomeno vuole avvicinarglisi. Adesso soffri. Non invidio il dolore in sé. Ma te lo invidio, questo dolore.»”
 “Cor cordium, heart of hearts, I've never said anything truer in my life to anyone.”
 “When I looked at my crotch, to my complete dismay I saw it was damp. Had he seen it? Surely he must have. That’s why he wanted us to go to the beach. That’s why he walked out of my room. I hit my head with my fist. How could I have been so careless, so thoughtless, so totally stupid? Of course he’d seen.”
 “«E come i vecchi seduti intorno alla piazzetta di fronte al memoriale del Piave, parleremo di due giovani che avevano trovato tanta felicità per qualche settimana e avevano passato il resto delle loro vite a intingere batuffoli di cotone in quella ciotola di felicità, temendo che finisse, senza osare berne più di un ditale e solo in occasione degli anniversari di rito.» Ma questa cosa che quasi non fu mai ancora ci tenta, avrei voluto dirgli. Quei due non possono disfarla, né riscriverla, né far finta di non averla vissuta, nemmeno riviverla; è lì, bloccata, come un’apparizione di lucciole in un campo d’estate verso sera, e continua a ripetere a ognuno di loro: Avresti potuto avere questo, invece. Ma tornare indietro è falso. Andare avanti è falso. Far finta di niente è falso. Cercare di rimediare a tutte queste falsità è a sua volta falso.La loro vita è come un’eco distorta sepolta per sempre in un santuario di Mitra.Silenzio.«Dio, come ci invidiavano quelli seduti di fronte a noi, a cena, la prima sera a Roma» disse. «Ci fissavano tutti a bocca aperta, giovani, vecchi, uomini, donne – ogni singolo individuo al nostro tavolo – perché eravamo tanto felici.»«E tornando a quella sera, quando saremo vecchi, parleremo ancora di questi giovani come se fossero due sconosciuti che abbiamo incontrato sul treno, che ammiriamo e vorremmo aiutare. E ci verrà da chiamarla invidia, perché chiamarlo rimpianto ci spezzerebbe il cuore.»”
 “Is this why people say ''maybe'' when they mean ''yes'', but hope you'll think it's ''no'' when all they really mean is, 'Please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “I should have learned to do what he’d have done. Shrugged my shoulders—and been okay with pre-come. But that wasn’t me. It would never have occurred to me to say, So what if he saw? Now he knows.”
 “And on that evening when we grow older still we’ll speak about these two young men as though they were two strangers we met on the train and whom we admire and want to help along. And we’ll want to call it envy, because to call it regret would break our hearts.” Silence again. “Perhaps I am not yet ready to speak of them as strangers,” I said. “If it makes you feel any better, I don’t think either of us ever will be.”
 “You are the only person I’d like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who isspeaking with you now, will cease to exist.”
 “‪You are my Homecoming, when I’m with you and we’re well together, there’s nothing more I want. You make me like who I am, who I become when you’re with me, Oliver”‬”
 “There is a law somewhere that says that when one person is thoroughly smitten with the other, the other must unavoidably be smitten as well. Amor ch'a null'amato amar perdona. Love, which exempts no one who's loved from loving.”
 “Podía haber negado tantas cosas: que deseaba tocarle las rodillas y las muñecas cuando lucían al sol con aquel viscoso lustre que he visto en tan poca gente; que me encantaba cómo sus pantalones de tenis, cortos y blancos, parecían poseer, de forma permanente, el color del barro y que mientras transcurrían las semanas se convirtió en el color de su piel; que su pelo, cada día más y más rubio, atrapaba al sol antes incluso de que saliese del todo; que su camisa azul ondulada se volvía más ondulada cuando se le ponía en días borrascosos en el patio junto a la piscina, con la promesa de impregnarse de un aroma a piel y sudor que me la ponía dura con tan solo pensarlo. Podía haber negado todo esto. Y haberme creído mis mentiras.”
 “And we’ll want to call it envy, because to call it regret would break our hearts.”
 “Try again later worked for people like Oliver. If not later, when? was my shibboleth.”
 “Because everything scares me, because both fear and desire are busy equivocating with each other, with me”
 “In the weeks we’d been thrown together that summer, our lives had scarcely touched, but we hadcrossed to the other bank, where time stops and heaven reaches down to earth and gives us that ration of what is from birth divinely ours. We looked the other way. We spoke about everything but. But we’ve always known, and not saying anything now confirmed it all the more. We had found the stars, you and I. And this is given once only.”
 “But sitting here I knew I was experiencing the mitigated bliss of those who are too superstitious to claim they may get all they've ever dreamed of but are far too grateful not to know it could easily be taken away”
 “Twenty years was yesterday, and yesterday was just earlier this morning, and morning seemed light-years away. “I’m like you,” he said. “I remember everything.”I stopped for a second. If you remember everything, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you’re just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there’s not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “But the strains of the doleful song stirred such powerful nostalgia for lost loves and for things lost over the course of one's life and for lives, like my grandfather's, that had come long before mine that I was suddenly taken back to a poor, disconsolate universe of simple folk like Mafalda's ancestors, fretting and scurrying in the tiny vicoli of an old Naples whose memory I wanted to share word for word with Oliver now, as if he too, like Mafalda and Manfredi and Anchise and me, were a fellow southerner whom I'd met in a foreign port city and who'd instantly understand why the sound of this old song, like an ancient prayer for the dead in the deadest of languages, could bring tears even in those who couldn't understand a syllable.”
 “And yes, there was such a luster in his eyes that I had to look away, and when I lookedback at him, his gaze hadn’t moved and was still focused on my face, as if to say, So you looked away and you’ve come back, will you be looking away again soon? —which was why I had to look away once more, as if immersed in thought, yet all the while scrambling for something to say, theway a fish struggles for water in a muddied pond that’s fast drying up in the heat. He must have known exactly what I was feeling. What made meblush in the end was not the natural embarrassment of the moment when I could tel he’d caught me trying to hold his gaze only then to let minescamper to safety; what made me blush was the thrilling possibility, unbelievable as I wanted it to remain, that he might actual y like me, and that heliked me in just the way I liked him.”
 “In a few days he'd be gone. If only he'd be back exactly a year from now.”
 “But all of these hours were strained by fear, as if fear were a brooding specter, or a strange, lost bird trapped in our little town, whose sooty wing flecked every living thing with a shadow that would never wash. I didn't know what I was afraid of, nor why I worried so much, nor why this thing that could so easily cause panic felt like hope sometimes and, like hope in the darkest moments, brought such joy, unreal joy, joy with a noose tied around it.”
 “How was I ever going to explain to him, or to myself, why I couldn’t go to his home and meet his family, though every part of me was dying to? Oliver wife. Oliver sons. Oliver pets. Oliver study, desk, books, world, life. What had I expected? A hug, a handshake, a perfunctory hail-fellow-well-met, and then the unavoidable Later! ? The very possibility of meeting his family suddenly alarmed me—too real, too sudden, too in-my-face, not rehearsed enough. Over the years I’d lodged him in the permanent past, my pluperfect lover, put him on ice, stuffed him with memories and mothballs like a hunted ornament confabulating with the ghost of all my evenings. I’d dust him off from time to time and then put him back on the mantelpiece. He no longer belonged to earth or to life. All I was likely to discover at this point wasn’t just how distant were the paths we’d taken, it was the measure of loss that was going to strike me—a loss I didn’t mind thinking about in abstract terms but which would hurt when stared at in the face, the way nostalgia hurts long after we’ve stopped thinking of things we’ve lost and may never have cared for. Or was it that I was jealous of his family, of the life he’d made for himself, of the things I never shared and couldn’t possibly have known about? Things he had longed for, loved, and lost, and whose loss had crushed him, but whose presence in his life, when he had them, I wasn’t there to witness and wouldn’t know the first thing about. I wasn’t there when he’d acquired them, wasn’t there when he’d given them up. Or was it much, much simpler? I had come to see if I felt something, if something was still alive. The trouble was I didn’t want anything to be alive either.”
 “You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as I know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist. Sometimes I have this awful picture of waking up in our house and looking out to the sea, hearing the news from the waves themselves, 'He died last night.' We missed out on so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours. Maybe every other sorrow I had known in life suddenly decided to converge on this very one. I had to fight it off...”
 “Shame trailed instant intimacy. Could intimacy endure once indecency was spent and our bodies had run out of tricks.I don't know that I asked the question, just as I am not sure I am able to answer it today. Was our intimacy paid for in the wrong currency?Or is intimacy the desired product no matter where you find it, how you acquire it, what you pay for it...”
 “Give me a blindfold, hold my hand, and don’t ask me to think—will you do that for me?”
 “Maybe it was the alcohol, maybe it was the truth.”
 “Or is intimacy the desired product no matter where you find it, how you acquire it, what you pay for it—black market, gray market, taxed, untaxed, under the table, over the counter?”
 “Oliver: You never did forgive me, did you?Elio: Forgive? There was nothing to forgive. If anything, I'm grateful for everything. I remember good things only.Oliver: Then what is it?Elio: The truth is I'm not sure I can feel anything. And if I am to meet your family, I would prefer not to feel aynthing. Perhaps it never went away. I don't think it went away.”
 “If you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you're just ready to shut the door of the taxi and have already said goodbye to everyone else and there's not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gaze, and call me by your name.”
 “«Oliver era Oliver» dissi, come se questo riassumesse tutto. «Parce que c’était lui, parce que c’était moi» aggiunse mio padre, citando la spiegazione onnicomprensiva data da Montaigne della sua amicizia con Etienne de la Boétie. Io, invece, stavo pensando alle parole di Emily Brontë: perché «lui è me più di me stessa» […] alla fine capivamo entrambi che lui era più me di quanto non fossi mai stato io, perché tanti anni prima, quando a letto lui diventava me e io diventavo lui, Oliver era e sarebbe rimasto per sempre, anche molto dopo che ogni strada imboccata nella vita ci aveva cambiato, mio fratello, mio amico, mio padre, mio figlio, mio marito, il mio amante, me stesso.”
 “At least last night there was the fear of failing, the fear of being called the very name I had used on others. Now that I had overcome that fear, had this anxiety been present all along, though latent, like a presage and a warning of killer reefs beyond the squall?”
 “Elio: You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, becaue only then will this thing I call my life make any sense. And if I should hear that you died, my life as i know it, the me who is speaking with you now, will cease to exist. Sometimes I have this awful picture of waking up in our house in B. and, looking out to the sea, hearing the news from the waves themselves, He died last night. We missed out on so much. It was a coma. Tomorrow I go back to my coma, and you to yours. Pardon, I didn't mean to offend - I am sure yours is no coma.Oliver: No, a parallel life.”
 “Él era mi pasadizo secreto hacia mí mismo, como un catalizador que nos permite convertirnos en lo que somos, un cuerpo ajeno, un marcapasos, un injerto, un remiendo que envío todos los impulsos correctos, una aguja de metal que mantiene juntos los huesos de los soldados, el corazón de otro que nos hace más nosotros de los que éramos antes del trasplante.”
 “Oliver: I'm like you. I remember everything.Elio: I stopped for a second. If you remember everthing, I wanted to say, and if you are really like me, then before you leave tomorrow, or when you'rej ust ready to shut the door of the taxi and heave already said goodbye to everyone else and there's not a thing left to say in this life, then, just this once, turn to me, even in jest, or as an afterthought, which would have meant everything to me when we were together, and, as you did back then, look me in the face, hold my gae and call me by your name.”
 “I look back on those days and regret none of it, not the risks, not the shame, not the total lack of foresight. The lyric cast of the sun, the teeming fields with tall plants nodding away under the intense midafternoon heat, the squeak of our wooden floors, or the scrape of the clay ashtray pushed ever so lightly on the marble slab that used to sit on my nightstand. I knew that our minutes were numbered, but I didn't dare count them, just as I knew where all this was headed, but I didn't care to read the milestones. This was a time when I intentionally failed to drop bread crumbs for my return journey; instead, I ate them. He could turn out to be a creep; he could change me or ruin me forever, while time and gossip might ultimately disembowel everything we shared and trim the whole thing down till nothing but fish bones remained. I might miss this day, or I might do far better, but I'd always know that on those afternoons in my bedroom I had held my moment.”
 “So what you’re really saying is you’ll come only when you think you’ll be too old to care. When my kids have left. Or when I’m a grandfather. I can just see us—and on that evening, we’ll sit together and drink a strong eau-de-vie, like the grappa your father used to serve at night sometimes.” “And like the old men who sat around the piazzetta facing the Piave memorial, we’ll speak about two young men who found much happiness for a few weeks and lived the remainder of their lives dipping cotton swabs into that bowl of happiness, fearing they’d use it up, without daring to drink more than a thimbleful on ritual anniversaries.” But this thing that almost never was still beckons, I wanted to tell him. They can never undo it, never unwrite it, never unlive it, or relive it—it’s just stuck there like a vision of fireflies on a summer field toward evening that keeps saying, You could have had this instead. But going back is false. Moving ahead is false. Looking the other way is false. Trying to redress all that is false turns out to be just as false. Their life is like a garbled echo buried for all time in a sealed Mithraic chamber. Silence.”
 “But that moment of what seemed like bliss now when we'd walked our bikes on the piazzetta both before and after our talk belonged to another time segment, as though it had happened to another me in some other life that was not too different from my own, but removed enough to make the few seconds that kept us apart seem like light-years away.”
 “I was so spellbound that I wrenched myself free from his touch, because a moment longer and I would have slackened like one of those tiny wooden toys whose gimp-legged body collapses as soon as the mainsprings are touched.”
 “I didn’t have any time left, because he brought his lips to my mouth, a warm, conciliatory, I’ll-meet-you-halfway-but-no-further kiss till he realized how famished mine was. I wished I knew how to calibrate my kiss the way he did. But passion allows us to hide more, and at that moment on Monet’s berm, if I wished to hide everything about me in this kiss, I was also desperate to forget the kiss by losing myself in it.”
 “I wanted it to remain, that he might actually like me, and that he liked me in just the way I liked him.”
 “Just be quiet, say nothing, and if you can’t say “yes,” don’t say “no,” say “later.” Is this why people say “maybe” when they mean “yes,” but hope you’ll think it’s “no” when all they really mean is, Please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “My father, who couldn't resist not leaving well enough alone and needed to top his entire performance with a little fillip of more recent vintage, added that what was truly amazing was that, in Israel and in many Arab countries nowadays, the fruit is referred to by a totally different name: mishmish.My mother was nonplussed. We all, including my two cousins who were visiting that week, had an impulse to clap.”
 “I am afraid of nothing, so why be so frightened? Why? Because everything scares me, because both fear and desire are busy equivocating with each other, with me, I can’t even tell the difference between wanting him to open the door and hoping he stood me up”
 “We were, it finally dawned on me, the two shyest persons in the world. My father was the only one who had seen through him from the very start.”
 “I knew I was making you uncomfortable, but I just had to make sure.” “So you knew all this time?” “Let’s say I was pretty sure.”
 “I look back on those days and regret none of it, not the risks, not the shame, not the total lack of foresight. The lyric cast of the sun, the teeming fields with tall plants nodding away under the intense midafternoon heat, the squeak of our wooden floors, or the scrape of the clay ashtray pushed ever so lightly on the marble slab that used to sit on my nightstand. I knew that our minutes were numbered, but I didn't dare count them, just as I knew where all this was headed, but I didn't care to read the mileposts. This was a time when I intentionally failed to drop bread crumbs for my return journey; instead, I ate them. He could turn out to be a creep; he could change me or ruin me forever, while time and gossip might ultimately disembowel everything we shared and trim the whole thing down till nothing but fish bones remained. I might miss this day, or I might do far better, but I'd always know that on those afternoons in my bedroom I had held my moment.”
 “So what if he saw? Now he knows. What never crossed my mind was that someone else who lived under our roof, who played cards with my mother, ate breakfast and supper at our table, recited the Hebrew blessing on Fridays for the sheer fun of it, slept in one of our beds, used our towels, shared our friends, watched TV with us on rainy days when we sat in the living room with a blanket around us because it got cold and we felt so snug being all together as we listened to the rain patter against the windows—that someone else in my immediate world might like what I liked, want what I wanted, be who I was”
 “I reached for him and let my hand rest on his crotch. He did not move. I should have slipped my hand straight into his shorts. He must have read my intention and, with total composure, bordering on a gesture that was very gentle but also quite glacial, brought his hand there and let it rest on mine for a second, then, twining his fingers into mine, lifted my hand.”
 “Say nothing and he' ll think you regret having written. Say anything and it will be out of place. Do what, then? Wait.”
 “Turn back. Who knows what you’ll find once you’re in that room. Not the tonic of discovery but the pall of despair when disenchantment has all but shamed every ill-stretched nerve in your body. The years are watching you now, every star you see tonight already knows your torment, your ancestors are gathered here and have nothing to give or say, Non c’andà, don’t go there.”
 “I remembered the scene in the Bible when Jacob asks Rachel for water and on hearing her speak the words that were prophesied for him, throws up his hands to heaven and kisses the ground by the well. Me Jewish, Celan Jewish, Oliver Jewish—we were in a half ghetto, half oasis, in an otherwise cruel and unflinching world where fuddling around strangers suddenly stops, where we misread no one and no one misjudges us, where one person simply knows the other and knows him so thoroughly that to be taken away from such intimacy is galut,Hebrew word for exile and dispersal. Was he my home, then, my homecoming? You are my homecoming. When I’m with you and we’re well together, there is nothing more I want. You make me like who I am, who I become when you’re with me, Oliver. If there is any truth in the world, it lies when I’m with you, and if I find the courage to speak my truth to you one day, remind me to light a candle in thanksgiving at every altar in Rome. It never occurred to me that if one word word from him could make me so happy, another could just as easily crush me, that if I didn’t want to be unhappy, I should learn to beware of such small joys as well.”
 “To think that a few nights ago I had felt so strong an urge to host his body in mine that I'd nearly jumped out of bed to seek him out in his room. Now the idea couldn't possibly arouse me. Perhaps this whole thing with Oliver had been canicular rut, and I was well rid of it.”
 “Your 'invigoration' works only on those who no longer have it.”
 “You can't answer an answer!”
 “Did he ignore me the way I ignored him that morning: on purpose, to draw me out, to protect himself, to show I was nothing to him? Or was he oblivious, the way sometimes the most perceptive individuals fail to pick up the most obvious cues because they're simply not paying attention, not tempted, not interested?”
 “I knew exactly what this spelled. Autumn was just around the corner.”
 “No, No one likes being alone. But I've learned how to live with it.”
 “push open the door at your own peril—believe me, you don’t want to hear this. Maybe you should go away now, while there’s still time.”
 “People who read are hiders. They hide who they are. People who”
 “Today, the pain, the stoking, the thrill of someone new, the promise of so much bliss hovering a fingertip away, the fumbling around people I might misread and don’t want to lose and must second-guess at every turn, the desperate cunning I bring to everyone I want and crave to be wanted by, the screens I put up as though between me and the world there were not just one but layers of rice-paper sliding doors, the urge to scramble and unscramble what was never really coded in the first place.”
 “Anticipating the worst was as sure a way of preventing it from happening.”
 “The symmetry of it all, or was it the emptied, seemingly ransacked neatness of his room, tied a knot in my throat. It reminded me less of a hotel room when you wait for the porter to help you take your things downstairs after a glorious stay that was ending too soon, than of a hospital room after all your belongings have been packed away, while the next patient, who hasn't been admitted yet, still waits in the emergency room exactly as you waited there yourself a week earlier.This was a test run for our final separation. Like looking at someone on a respirator before it's finally turned off days later.”
 “We were alone together for three days, we knew no one in the city, I could be anyone, say anything, do anything. I felt like a war prisoner who's suddenly been released by an invading army and told that he can start heading home now, no forms to fill out, no debriefing, no questions asked, no buses, no gate passes, no clean clothes to stand in line for—just start walking.”
 “Jij bent mijn thuiskomen, Oliver. Als ik bij jou ben en het is goed tussen ons, heb ik verder niets meer nodig. Jij maakt dat ik houd van wie ik ben, van wie ik word als jij bij mij bent.”
 “Parce que c’était lui, parce que c’était moi,”
 “[...] e speri che nessuno parli, perché tu non ce la fai, e preghi che nessuno ti chieda di muoverti, perché hai il cuore occluso e batte così forte che sputerà fuori schegge di vetro prima che qualunque altra cosa possa scorrere attraverso le sue anguste cavità.”
 “From the mouth where flowers once blossomed only worms emerge.”
 “Perhaps all this gave him a second wind of silliness, of youth.Perhaps he had already been 'there' years earlier and was stopping for a short stay on his return journey home.Perhaps he was playing along, watching me.Perhaps he had never done it with anyone and I'd showed up in the nick of time.”
 “Fuoco che è una supplica, ti prego, ti prego, dimmi che mi sbaglio, dimmi che mi sono immaginato tutto, perché non può essere vero anche per te, e se invece è vero anche per te, allora sei l’uomo più crudele al mondo.”
 “Persze kezdődhetett akár jóval később, számomra is észrevétlenül. Az ember látja és mégsem látja a másikat, mintha az illető takarásban lenne. Vagy ha észre is veszi az ember, nincs kattanás, nincs szikra, és mielőtt ráébredne az illető jelenlétére vagy nyugtalanítani kezdené valami, a rendelkezésükre álló hat hét már a vége felé jár, az illető elment vagy legalábbis szedelőzködik, az ember pedig egyedül kell megküzdjön azzal az érzéssel, ami az orra előtt, mégis észrevétlenül alakult már hetek óta, és amit tünetei alapján nem lehet másképp nevezni, mint vágynak.”
 “Fa’ con me ciò che vuoi. Prendimi. Chiedimi se voglio, e senti che risposta ti darò, solo non permettermi di dirti no.”
 “It was just that I was hoping we'd go together.''You mean like the other day?' he added, as though to help me say what I couldn't bring myself to say, but making things no easier by pretending to have forgotten the exact day.'I don't think we'll ever do anything like that again.' I was trying to sound noble and grave in my defeat. 'But, yes, like that.' I could be vague too.”
 “I had rehearsed losing him not just to ward off suffering by taking it in small doses beforehand, but, as all superstitious people do, to see if my willingness to accept the very worst might not induce fate to soften its blow. Like soldiers trained to fight by night, I lived in the dark so as not to be blinded when darkness came. Rehearse the pain to dull the pain. Homeopathically.”
 “Try again later meant, I haven't the courage now. Things weren't ready just yet. Where I'd find the will and the courage to try again later I didn't know. But resolving to do something rather than sit passively made me feel that I was already doing something, like reaping a profit on money I hadn't invested, much less earned yet.”
 “me di cuenta que vivíamos con el tiempo prestado, que el tiempo es siempre prestado y que la empresa de préstamos nos cobra prima justo en el momento en el que estamos en la peor situación para pagar y necesitamos pedir más prestado.”
 “You are the only person I'd like to say goodbye to when I die, because only then will this thing I call my life make any sense.”
 “I wanted no secrets, no screens, nothing between us. Little did I know that if I relished the gust of candor that bound us tighter each time we swore my body is your body, it was also because I enjoyed rekindling the tiny lantern of unsuspected shame.”
 “that, here, I had finally encountered the life that was right for me but had failed to have.”
 “I was going for the devious smile that would suddenly light up his face each time he’d read my mind, when all I really wanted was skin, just skin.”
 “We were alone together for three days, we knew no one in the city, I could be anyone, say anything, do anything.”
 “I knock on the glass panel, softly. My heart is beating like crazy. I am afraid of nothing, so why be so frightened? Why? Because everything scares me, because both fear and desire are busy equivocating with each other, with me, I can't even tell the difference between wanting him to open the door and hoping he's stood me up.”
 “Piensa en mí alguna vez.”
 “Un amor pluscuamperfecto. - plus quam perfectum, «más que perfecto».”
 “Είμαι όπως εσύ" είπε. "Θυμάμαι τα πάντα".Σταμάτησα για ένα δευτερόλεπτο. Αν θυμάσαι τα πάντα, ήθελα να του πω, κι αν είσαι στ'αλήθεια όπως εγώ, τότε προτού φύγεις αύριο, ή όταν είσαι στ'αλήθεια έτοιμος να κλείσεις την πόρτα του ταξί και να πεις αντίο σε όλους τους άλλους και να μην έχει μείνει τίποτα πια να πεις σ'αυτή την ζωή, τότε, μονάχα για μία φορά, γύρνα προς το μέρος μου, έστω και στ'αστεία, έστω και σαν μια δεύτερη σκέψη, που κάποτε θα σήμαινε τα πάντα για μένα, και, όπως έκανες τότε, κοίταξέ με στο πρόσωπο, αιχμαλώτισε το βλέμμα μου, και φώναξέ με τ'όνομα σου.”
 “Tomorrow I might be overcome again with this surfeit of self-loathing. I wondered if one got used to that. Or does one accrue a deficit of malaise so large that one learns to find ways to consolidate it in one lump feeling with its own amenities and grace periods?”
 “If he didn’t touch me, then I’d be the one to touch him, and if he didn’t respond, I’d let my mouth boldly go to places it’d never been before. The humor of the words themselves amused me. Intergalactic slop. My Star of David, his Star of David, our two necks like one, two cut Jewish men joined together from time immemorial.”
 “I know desire when I see it—and yet, this time, it slipped by completely. I was going for the devious smile that would suddenly light up his face each time he’d read my mind, when all I really wanted was skin, just skin.”
 “tudo isso teve início no verão em que Oliver veio para nossa casa. Está gravado em cada música que foi sucesso naquele verão, em cada romance que li durante e após sua estadia, em tudo, do cheiro do alecrim em dias quentes ao canto frenético das cigarras à tarde —”
 “I sensed that he was staring at me as I was explaining Haydn’s Seven Last Words of Christ, which I’d been transcribing. I was seventeen that year and, being the youngest at the table and the least likely to be listened to,”
 “It would never have seemed remotely possible that someone so thoroughly okay with himself might want me to share his body as much as I ached to yield up mine.”
 “I had come with truth and human kindness in my heart and that I was leaving it on his sheets now to remind him how he’d said no to a young man’s plea for fellowship. Say no to that and they should have you in hell feet first.”
 “are “being” and “having” thoroughly inaccurate verbs in the twisted skein of desire, where having someone’s body to touch and being that someone we’re longing to touch are one and the same, just opposite banks on a river that passes from us to them, back to us and over to them again in this perpetual circuit where the chambers of the heart, like the trapdoors of desire, and the wormholes of time, and the false-bottomed drawer we call identity share a beguiling logic according to which the shortest distance between real life and the life unlived, between who we are and what we want, is a twisted staircase designed with the impish cruelty of M. C. Escher.”
 “Whatever happens between us, Elio, I just want you to know. Don’t ever say you didn’t know.”
 “Oliver looked at me, meaning, Did you like it? I shrugged my shoulders, like someone reserving judgment for later. But I was not being sincere; I liked it a lot.”
 “Only then, by a ricochet mechanism that totally surprised me, did it hit me. Had Oliver been doing the same with me? Intentionally ignoring me all the time, the better to draw me in?”
 “I was reminded of a married chatelaine who, after sleeping with a young vassal one night, had him seized by the palace guards the next morning and summarily executed in a dungeon on trumped-up charges, not only to eliminate all evidence of their adulterous night together and to prevent her young lover from becoming a nuisance now that he thought he was entitled to her favors, but to stem the temptation to seek him out on the following evening.”
 “I'd be ready to claim, if he asked what I was doing there, that the night was too hot, and the smell of citronella intolerable, and that I preferred to stay up, not sleep, not read, just stare, because I couldn't bring myself to sleep”
 “Try again later meant, I haven’t the courage now. Things weren’t ready just yet. Where I’d find the will and the courage to try again later I didn’t know.”
 “Not knowing, not-not knowing, not-not-not knowing? Just be quiet, say nothing, and if you can't say "yes", don't say "no", say "later". Is this why people say "maybe" when they mean "yes" but hope you'll think it's "no", when all they really mean is please, just ask me once more, and once more after that?”
 “existem maneiras fáceis de trazer o verão de volta em meio à nevasca.”
 “I wanted someone to pass by and notice me, and up to them to decide what to do”
