 “Life moves on and so should we”
 “What would you do if you weren't afraid?”
 “What you are afraid of is never as bad as what you imagine. The fear you let build up in your mind is worse than the situation that actually exists.”
 “See what you're doing wrong, laugh at it, change and do better.”
 “When you stop being afraid you feel good”
 “The quicker you let go of old cheese, the sooner you find new cheese.”
 “If you do not change, you can become extinct !”
 “It is safer to search in the maze than to remain in a cheeseless situation”
 “He knew sometimes some fear can be good. When you are afraid things are going to get worse if you don't do something, it can prompt you into action. But it is not good when you are afraid that it keeps you from doing anything.”
 “Better late than never.”
 “The fear you let build up in your mind is worse than the situation that actually exists”
 “Being in the uncomfortable zone is much better than staying in the cheese-less situation .”
 “Movement in new direction helps find new cheese.”
 “He asked himself those some questions too many times and felt the fears again that kept him where he was”
 “Sometimes, Hem, things change and they are never the same again. This looks like one of those times. That's life! Life moves on. And so should we.”
 “Smell the cheese often so you know when it is getting old.”
 “هناك دائما جبنا جديدا أمام عينيك, سواء لاحظته أم لم تلاحظه, وإنك تستمتع به فقط عندما تتخلص من مخاوفك وتخوض المغامرة”
 “The More Important Your Cheese Is To You The More You Want To Hold On To It.”
 “عندما تتحرك متجاوزا شعورك بالخوف, ستشعر بالحرية”
 “عندما تغير معتقداتك, فأنت تغير تصرفاتك”
 “I guess we resist changing, because we are afraid of change.”
 “It all depends on what you choose to believe.”
 “أسرع طريقة للتغيير هي أن يضحك الإنسان من حماقته, وساعتها سينسى مافعل وسوف يواصل المسير”
 “things change and they are never the same again. This looks like one, of those times, Hem. That's life! Life moves on. And so should we.”
 “الخوف الذي تتركه يسيطر على عقلك هو أخطر بكثير من الوضع القائم بالفعل.”
 “عندما تخيلت نفسي وأنا استمتع بالجبن الجديد, حتى قبل أن أعثر عليه, وجدت طريقي إليه”
 “ملاحظة التغيرات البسيطة تجعلك تتأقلم مع التغيرات الجذرية التي قد تصادفك مستقبلا”
 “كلما كانت قطعة الجبن هامة بالنسبة لك, فأنت في حاجة إلى الاحتفاظ بها رغم ماتواجهه من صعاب”
 “Life is no straight and easy corridor along which we travel free and unhampered, but a maze of passages, through which we must seek our way, lost and confused, now and again checked in a blind alley.   But always, if we have faith, a door will open for us, not perhaps one that we ourselves”
 “I guess the question is, ‘What do we need to let go of and what do we need to move on to?’” No”
 “إن السير في إتجاه جديد يجعلك تعثر على المزيد من الجبن”
 “He realized that when he had been afraid to change he had been holding on to the illusion of Old Cheese that was no longer there”
 “The fastest way to change is to laugh at your own folly”
 “عليك أن تعتقد بأن التغيير قد يضرك ، وأنه لا بد لك أن تقاومه ، أو يمكنك أن تعتقد بإن عثورك على جبن جديد سوف يساعدكعلى استيعاب التغيير و التكييف معه ..كل ذلك يعتمد على المعتقد الذي تختار أن تؤمن به ..كتب " هاو " على الحائط قائلاً "[ عندما ترى أنك تستطيع العثور على جبن جديد وتستمتع به ، فستغير طريقك ]”
 “He was taking control, rather than simply letting things happen to him. Then”
 “Each of us has our own idea of what Cheese is, and we pursue it because we believe it makes us happy. If we get it, we often become attached to it. And if we lose it, or it’s taken away, it can be traumatic. The”
 “It’s time to find New Cheese.” Hem argued, “But what if there is no Cheese out there? Or even if there is, what if you don’t find it?” “I don’t know,” Haw said. He had asked himself those same questions too many times and felt the fears again that kept him where he was. He asked himself, “Where am I more likely to find Cheese—here or in the Maze?”
 “In The Story you will see that the two mice do better when they are faced with change because they keep things simple, while the two Littlepeople’s complex brains and human emotions complicate things. It is not that mice are smarter. We all know people are more intelligent than mice. However, as you watch what the four characters do, and realize both the mice and the Littlepeople represent parts of ourselves-the simple and the complex—you can see it would be to our advantage to do the simple things that work when things change. In”
 “إذ لم تتغير, فمن الممكن أن تفنى”
 “إن المعتقدات البالية لا ترشدك إلى جبن جديد”
 “Some people never change and they pay a price for it.”
 “that when you change what you believe, you change what you do.”
 “He realized his fears were making things worse. So he did what he would do if he weren’t afraid. He moved in a new direction. As he started running down the dark corridor he began to smile. Haw didn’t realize it yet, but he was discovering what nourished his soul. He was letting go and trusting what lay ahead for him, even though he did not know exactly what it was. To his surprise, Haw started to enjoy himself more and more. “Why do I feel so good?” he wondered. “I don’t have any Cheese and I don’t know where I am going.” Before long, he knew why he felt good.”
 “I guess it’s a lot better to initiate change while you can than it is to try to react and adjust to it. Maybe we should move our own Cheese.” “What”
 “As far as work goes, maybe instead of changing jobs, I should be changing the way I am doing my job. I’d probably have a better position by now if I did.”
 “Old beliefs do not lead you to new cheese”
 “كلما أسرعت بالتخلص من الجبن القديم, عثرت على الجبن الجديد”
 “عندما ترى إنك تستطيع العثور على جبن جديد وتستمتع به, فستغير طريقك”
 “إستمتع بالتغيير”
 “While Haw still had a great supply of Cheese, he often went out into the Maze and explored new areas to stay in touch with what was happening around him. He knew it was safer to be aware of his real choices than to isolate himself in his comfort zone.”
 “The fear you let build up in your mind is worse than the situation that actually exists. He”
 “Sometimes, Hem, things change and they are never the same again. This looks like one of those times. That's life! Life moves on. And so should we”
 “Whatever parts of us we choose to use, we all share something in common: a need to find our way in the Maze and succeed in changing times. The”
 “عليك أن تطلب من الآخرين أن يتغيروا، لكن لا تحاول إجبارهم على ذلك. فمن لا يتغير من الداخل، لا يتغير أبداً”
 “El Queso Nuevo puede ser una relación nueva con la misma persona”
 “He decided that if he ever got the chance again, he would get out of his comfort zone and adapt to change sooner. It would make things easier.”
 “He realized that when he had been afraid to change he had been holding on to the illusion of Old Cheese that was no longer there. So”
 “لابد للتغير أن يقع باستمرار سواء توقعناه ام لا و لايمكنك ان تتفاجأ بالتغير الا اذا لم تكن تتوقعه وتبحث عنه”
 “Everyone knows that not all change is good or even necessary. But in a world that is constantly changing, it is to our advantage to learn how to adapt and enjoy something better. In”
 “من الاسلم أن تبحث في المتاهة, من ان تبقى دون جبن”
 “كن مستعدا كي تتغير بسرعة”
 “Life is no straight and easy corridor along which we travel free and unhampered, but a maze of passages, through which we must seek our way, lost and confused, now and again checked in a blind alley.   But always, if we have faith, a door will open for us, not perhaps one that we ourselves would ever have thought of, but one that will ultimately prove good for us.”   A.J. Cronin”
 “She said, “I’m curious. How many here are afraid of change?” No one responded so she suggested, “How about a show of hands?” Only one hand went up. “Well, it looks like we’ve got one honest person in our group!” she said. And then continued, “Maybe you’ll like this next question better. How many here think other people are afraid of change?” Practically everyone raised their hands. Then they all started laughing.”
 “when you change what you believe, you change what you do.”
 “The best laid schemes o’ mice and men often go astray.   Robert Burns 1759 -1796         “Life is no straight and easy corridor along which we travel free and unhampered, but a maze of passages, through which we must seek our way, lost and confused, now and again checked in a blind alley.   But always, if we have faith, a door will open for us, not perhaps one that we ourselves would ever have thought of, but one that will ultimately prove good for us.”   A.J. Cronin Parts of All of Us The Simple and The Complex   The four imaginary characters depicted in this story— the mice: “Sniff” and “Scurry,” and the Littlepeople: “Hem” and “Haw”— are intended to represent the simple and the complex parts of ourselves, regardless of our age, gender, race or nationality.   Sometimes we may act like Sniff Who sniffs out change”
 “ملاحظة التغييرات البسيطة تجعلك تتأقلم مع التغييرات الجذرية التي قد تصادفك مستقبلاً.”
 “Then when I heard the story of Who Moved My Cheese?, I realized my job was to paint a picture of ‘New Cheese’ that we would all want to pursue, so we could enjoy changing and succeeding, whether it was at work or in life.”
 “My Cheese? is a story about change”
 “And yet, as you know, living in constant white water with the changes occurring all the time at work or in life can be stressful, unless people have a way of looking at change that helps them understand it. Enter the Cheese story. When”
 “In the third section, A Discussion, people discuss what The Story meant to them and how they are going to use it in their work and in their lives. Some readers of this book’s early manuscript preferred to stop at the end of The Story, without reading further, and interpret its meaning for themselves. Others enjoyed reading A Discussion that follows because it stimulated their thinking about how they might apply what they’d learned to their own situation. Everyone knows that not all change is good or even necessary. But in a world that is constantly changing, it is to our advantage to learn how to adapt and enjoy something better. In any case, I hope each time you re-read Who Moved My Cheese? you will find something new and useful in the brief story, as I do, and that it will help you deal with change and bring you success, whatever you decide success is for you. I hope you enjoy what you discover, and I wish you well.”
 “Haw was beginning to realize the difference between activity and productivity.”
 “change could surprise you only if you didn't expect it and weren't looking for it”
 “امتلاك الجبن يشعرك بالسعادة”
 “Repeating the same behavior will just get you the same results. “As”
 “اشتم رائحة قطعة الجبن من حين لآخر حتى تعرف متى يصيبها العطب”
 “Sometimes they did well, but at other times their powerful human beliefs and emotions took over and clouded the way they looked at things. It made life in the Maze more complicated and challenging.”
 “What would I do if I weren’t afraid?”
 “Sometimes we’re not even aware that we’re afraid.”
 “Страхът, който ти самият насаждаш в ума си, е много по-страшен от реалната ситуация.”
 “He realized that when he had been afraid to change he had been holding on to the illusion of Old Cheese that was no longer there.”
 “Защото ако продължаваш да се държиш по един и същ начин, ще стигаш все до едни и същи резултати.”
 “You did not need to overcomplicate matters or confuse yourself with fearful beliefs.”
 “No servía de nada complicar las cosas o confundirse a uno mismo con creencias que dan miedo. Si uno advertía cuándo empezaban a producirse los cambios pequeños, estaría más preparado para el gran cambio que antes o después seguramente se produciría.”
 “Only one hand went up. “Well, it looks like we’ve got one honest person in our group!” she said. And then continued, “Maybe you’ll like this next question better. How many here think other people are afraid of change?” Practically everyone raised their hands. Then they all started laughing.”
 “எலிகள் மற்றும் மனிதர்களின் சிறந்த திட்டங்கள் அடிக்கடித் தடம் புரண்டுவிடுகின்றன. - ராபர்ட் பர்ன்ஸ் (1759 - 1796)”
 “what you are afraid of is never as bad as what you imagine. The fear you let build up in your mind is worse than the situation that actually exists. He”
 “ஒருபோதும் செய்யாமல் இருப்பதைவிட, தாமதமாகச் செய்வது மேல்.”
 “Haw realized he had been held captive by his own fear.”
 “வேலைகளை மாற்றுவதைவிட, வேலை செய்யும் விதத்தை மாற்ற வேண்டும்”
 “but he was discovering what nourished his soul. He was letting go and trusting what lay ahead for him, even though he did not know exactly what it was.”
 “உங்களுக்கு பயமே இல்லையென்றால், நீங்கள் என்ன செய்வீர்கள்?”
 “நிகழ்ந்து கொண்டிருந்த மாற்றங்களைப் பற்றிக் குறைகூறுவதற்குப் பதிலாக, அவர்கள் இப்போது, ‘நமது சீஸ் நகர்த்தப்பட்டுள்ளது. நாம் புதிய சீஸைத் தேடுவோம்,”
 “தான் இழந்து கொண்டிருந்தவற்றைப் பற்றிச் சிந்திப்பதற்குப் பதிலாக, தனக்குக் கிடைக்கக்கூடிய இலாபங்களைப் பற்றி ஹா சிந்திக்கத் துவங்கினான்.”
 “நாம் எதைக் குறித்துப் பயப்படுகிறோமோ, அந்த விஷயம் நாம் கற்பனை செய்யும் அளவுக்கு மோசமானதல்ல என்பதை ஹா மீண்டும் உணர்ந்தான். பயம் நம் மனத்தை ஆக்கிரமிக்க நாம் அனுமதிப்பது, உண்மையாக நிலவும் சூழ்நிலையைவிட மோசமானது.”
 “and Scurry, and wondered if they had found any cheese yet. He believed they might be having a hard time, as running through the Maze usually involved some uncertainty. But he also knew that it was likely to only last for a while. Sometimes, Haw would imagine Sniff and Scurry finding New Cheese and enjoying it. He thought about how”
 “He knew that when you change what you believe, you change what you do.”
 “நாம் எதிர்பார்த்திருக்கிறோமோ இல்லையோ, மாற்றம் தொடர்ந்து நிகழ்ந்து கொண்டுதான் இருக்கிறது”
 “மாற்றத்தை நாம் எதிர்பார்க்காமல் இருந்தாலோ, அல்லது அதைத் தேடாமல் இருந்தாலோ மட்டுமே அந்த மாற்றம் நமக்கு ஆச்சரியமளிக்கும்.”
 “உங்கள் நம்பிக்கைகளை நீங்கள் மாற்றும்போது, உங்கள் நடவடிக்கைகள் மாறும் என்பதை அவன் அறிந்தான்.”
 “When You Stop Being Afraid, You Feel Good! Haw realized he had been held captive by his own fear. Moving in a new direction had freed him. Now he felt the cool breeze that was blowing in this part of the Maze and it was refreshing. He took in some deep breaths and felt invigorated by the movement. Once he had gotten past his fear, it turned out to be more enjoyable than he once believed it could be. Haw hadn’t felt this way for a long time. He had almost forgotten how much fun it was to go for it. To make things even better, Haw started to paint a picture in his mind again. He saw himself in great realistic detail, sitting in the middle of a pile of all his favorite cheeses-from Cheddar to Brie! He saw himself eating the many cheeses he liked, and he enjoyed what he saw. Then he imagined how much he would enjoy all their great tastes. The more clearly he saw the image of himself enjoying New Cheese, the more real and believable it became. He could sense that he was going to find it. He wrote: Imagining Yourself Enjoying Your New Cheese Leads You To It.”
 “மாற்றம் என்பது ஏதோ ஒன்றை இழப்பதல்ல, மாறாக ஏதோ ஒன்றைப் பெறுவது”
 “any for some time until they finally went into an area of the Maze where they had never been before: Cheese Station N. They squealed with delight. They found what they had been looking for:”
 “மாறுவதற்கான வேகமான வழி, உங்கள் சொந்தத் தவறுகளைக் கண்டு சிரிப்பதுதான் என்பதை அவன் உணர்ந்தான்.”
 “நம்மால் முடிந்தபோது நாமாகவே ஒரு மாற்றத்தைத் தூண்டுவது, அந்த மாற்றம் ஏற்பட்டவுடன் அதற்கேற்ப நம்மை மாற்றிக் கொள்ள முயற்சிப்பதைவிடச் சிறப்பானது”
 “some time until they finally went into an area of the Maze where they had never been before: Cheese Station”
 “One of the many real-life examples comes from Charlie Jones, a well-respected broadcaster for NBC-TV, who revealed that hearing the story of Who Moved My Cheese? saved his career. His job as a broadcaster is unique, but the principles he learned can be used by anyone. Here’s what happened: Charlie had worked hard and had done a great job of broadcasting Track and Field events at an earlier Olympic Games, so he was surprised and upset when his boss told him he’d been removed from these showcase events for the next Olympics and assigned to Swimming and Diving. Not knowing these sports as well, he was frustrated. He felt unappreciated and he became angry. He said he felt it wasn’t fair! His anger began to affect everything he did. Then, he heard the story of Who Moved My Cheese? After that he said he laughed at himself and changed his attitude. He realized his boss had just “moved his Cheese.” So he adapted. He learned the two new sports, and in the process, found that doing something new made him feel young. It wasn’t long before his boss recognized his new attitude and energy, and he soon got better assignments. He went on to enjoy more success than ever and was later inducted into Pro Football’s Hall of Fame—Broadcasters’ Alley. That’s”
 “விஷயங்களை எளிமையாக வைத்துக் கொள்வது, வளைந்து கொடுத்துப் போவது, விரைந்து செயல்படுவது ஆகியவற்றின் அவசியம் குறித்து உங்களால் அதிக விழிப்புணர்வுடன் இருக்க முடியும்.”
 “சிறிய மாற்றங்கள் நிகழத் துவங்கும்போது நீங்கள் அவற்றைக் கவனித்து வந்தால், எதிர்காலத்தில் வரக்கூடிய பெரிய மாற்றத்திற்கு நீங்கள் உங்களைத் தயார் செய்து கொள்ளலாம்.”
 “மாற்றத்திற்கான மாபெரும் தடை நமக்குள்தான் இருக்கிறது என்பதையும், நாம் மாறாதவரை எதுவும் மேம்படாது என்பதையும் அவன் ஏற்றுக் கொண்டான்.”
 “natural for change to continually occur, whether youexpect it or not.”
 “கதை இங்கு எந்த விளைவையும் ஏற்படுத்தவில்லை. அந்தக் கதையில் இருந்து நாங்கள் கற்றுக் கொண்ட பாடங்களின் அடிப்படையில் நாங்கள் மேற்கொண்ட வித்தியாசமான நடவடிக்கைகள்தான் அதற்குக் காரணம்,”
 “the biggest inhibitor to change lies within yourself, andthat nothing gets better until you. change.”
 “தன் சொந்த வழியைத் தானே கண்டுபிடித்தாக வேண்டும். வேறு யாராலும் அவனுக்காக அதைச் செய்ய முடியாது. அல்லது அதைச் செய்யுமாறு வேறு யாராலும் அவனைக் கட்டாயப்படுத்த முடியாது. மாறுவதில் உள்ள அனுகூலத்தை அவன் தானாகவே உணர்ந்தாக வேண்டும்.”
 “от перемен никуда не деться, — нравятся они тебе или нет, боишься ты их или нет.”
 “Haw said, “Sometimes, Hem, things change and they are never the same again. This looks like one of those times. That’s life! Life moves on. And so should we.” Haw”
 “He learned the two new sports, and in the process, found that doing something new made him feel young. It wasn’t long before his boss recognized”
 “Haw realized again, as he had once before, that what you are afraid of is never as bad as what you imagine. The fear you let build up in your mind is worse than the situation that actually exists.”
 “While in the past we may have wanted loyal employees, today we need flexible people who are not possessive about “the way things are done around here.” And”
 “As Haw prepared to leave, he started to feel more alive, knowing that he was finally able to laugh at himself, let go and move on. Haw laughed and announced, “It’s ... Maze ... time!” Hem”
 “As time went on, Sniff and Scurry continued their routine. They arrived early each morning and sniffed and scratched and scurried around Cheese Station C, inspecting the area to see if there had been any changes from the day before. Then they would sit down to nibble on the cheese. One morning they arrived at Cheese Station C and discovered there was no cheese. They weren’t surprised. Since Sniff and Scurry had noticed the supply of cheese had been getting smaller every day, they were prepared for the inevitable and knew instinctively what to do. They looked at each other, removed the running shoes they had tied together and hung conveniently around their necks, put them on their feet and laced them up. The mice did not overanalyze things. To the mice, the problem and the answer were both simple. The situation at Cheese Station C had changed. So, Sniff and Scurry decided to change. They both looked out into the Maze. Then Sniff”
