 “Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.”
 “The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.”
 “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.”
 “Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.”
 “Supreme excellence consists of breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.”
 “All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when we are able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must appear inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.”
 “Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win”
 “In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity”
 “If your enemy is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him. If your opponent is temperamental, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. If his forces are united, separate them. If sovereign and subject are in accord, put division between them. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected .”
 “The greatest victory is that which requires no battle.”
 “Engage people with what they expect; it is what they are able to discern and confirms their projections. It settles them into predictable patterns of response, occupying their minds while you wait for the extraordinary moment — that which they cannot anticipate.”
 “There is no instance of a nation benefitting from prolonged warfare.”
 “Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: 1 He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. 2 He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.3 He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. 4 He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. 5 He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.”
 “Treat your men as you would your own beloved sons. And they will follow you into the deepest valley.”
 “Move swift as the Wind and closely-formed as the Wood. Attack like the Fire and be still as the Mountain.”
 “The art of war is of vital importance to the State. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.”
 “When you surround an army, leave an outlet free. Do not press a desperate foe too hard.”
 “There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard. There are not more than five primary colours, yet in combinationthey produce more hues than can ever been seen.There are not more than five cardinal tastes, yet combinations ofthem yield more flavours than can ever be tasted.”
 “When the enemy is relaxed, make them toil. When full, starve them. When settled, make them move.”
 “who wishes to fight must first count the cost”
 “So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and strike at what is weak.”
 “To win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the acme of skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill.”
 “Be extremely subtle even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely mysterious even to the point of soundlessness. Thereby you can be the director of the opponent's fate.”
 “What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.”
 “One may know how to conquer without being able to do it. ”
 “The wise warrior avoids the battle.”
 “The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent.”
 “Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity. Force him to reveal himself, so as to find out his vulnerable spots.”
 “If you know the enemy and know yourself, your victory will not stand in doubt; if you know Heaven and know Earth, you may make your victory complete.”
 “He who is prudent and lies in wait for an enemy who is not, will be victorious.”
 “Thus the expert in battle moves the enemy, and is not moved by him.”
 “Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.”
 “If your opponent is of choleric temper,  seek to irritate him.  Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.”
 “There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must not be attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed.”
 “Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.”
 “Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.”
 “Great results, can be achieved with small forces.”
 “If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive;and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attachedto you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be unless.”
 “Ponder and deliberate before you make a move.”
 “Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.”
 “Bravery without forethought, causes a man to fight blindly and desperately like a mad bull.  Such an opponent, must not be encountered with brute force, but may be lured into an ambush and slain.”
 “If ignorant both of your enemy and yourself, you are certain to be in peril.”
 “mystify, mislead, and surprise the enemy”
 “Never venture, never win!”
 “If his forces are united, separate them.”
 “He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.”
 “The skillful tactician may be likened to the shuai-jan. Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found in the Ch'ang mountains. Strike at its head, and you will be attacked by its tail; strike at its tail, and you will be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, and you will be attacked by head and tail both.”
 “It is easy to love your friend, but sometimes the hardest lesson to learn is to love your enemy.”
 “Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical.”
 “But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.”
 “Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.”
 “Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will.”
 “Rewards for good service should not be deferred a single day.”
 “Disorder came from order, fear came from courage, weakness came from strength.”
 “who does not know the evils of war cannot appreciate its benefits”
 “If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.”
 “It is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for the purposes of spying, and thereby they achieve great results.”
 “Know your enemy and know yourself and you can fight a hundred battles without disaster”
 “Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.”
 “Hence a commander who advances without any thought of winning personal fame and withdraws in spite of certain punishment, whose only concern is to protect his people and promote the interests of his ruler, is the nation's treasure. Because he fusses over his men as if they were infants, they will accompany him into the deepest valleys; because he fusses over his men as if they were his own beloved sons, they will die by his side. If he is generous with them and yet they do not do as he tells them, if he loves them and yet they do not obey his commands, if he is so undisciplined with them that he cannot bring them into proper order, they will be like spoiled children who can be put to no good use at all.”
 “If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.”
 “Conform to the enemy's tactics until a favorable opportunity offers; then come forth and engage in a battle that shall prove decisive.”
 “Those skilled at making the enemy move do so by creating a situation to which he must conform; they entice him with something he is certain to take, and with lures of ostensible profit they await him in strength.”
 “When your army has crossed the border, you should burn your boats and bridges, in order to make it clear to everybody that you have no hankering after home.”
 “Hence that general is skilful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skilful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack.”
 “There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general:(1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction;(2) cowardice, which leads to capture;(3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults;(4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame;(5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble.”
 “He who advances without seeking fame,Who retreats without escaping blame,He whose one aim is to protect his people and serve his lord,The man is a jewel of the Realm”
 “Plan for what it is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small.”
 “the worst calamities that befall an army arise from hesitation”
 “Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions.”
 “Foreknowledge cannot be gotten from ghosts and spirits, cannot be had by analogy, cannot be found out by calculation. It must be obtained from people, people who know the conditions of the enemy.”
 “If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak. ”
 “do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat”
 “if you fight with all your might,  there is a chance of life; where as death is certain if you cling to your corner”
 “Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose.”
 “Know thy self, know thy enemy. A thousand battles, a thousand victories.”
 “The end and aim of spying in all its five varieties is knowledge of the enemy; and this knowledge can only be derived, in the first instance, from the converted spy. Hence it is essential that the converted spy be treated with the utmost liberality.”
 “Conceal your dispositions, and your condition will remain secret, which leads to victory;  show your dispositions, and your condition will become patent, which leads to defeat.”
 “the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.”
 “Do not swallow bait offered by the enemy. Do not interfere with an army that is returning home.”
 “You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.”
 “When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.”
 “The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points;”
 “If those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves, the army is suffering from thirst. [One may know the condition of a whole army from the behavior of a single man.]”
 “Deep knowledge is to be aware of disturbance before disturbance, to be aware of danger before danger, to be aware of destruction before destruction, to be aware of calamity before calamity. Strong action is training the body without being burdened by the body, exercising the mind without being used by the mind, working in the world without being affected by the world, carrying out tasks without being obstructed by tasks.”
 “We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors.”
 “You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.”
 “There are not more than five primary colors  (blue, yellow,  red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen.”
 “Whether in an advantageous position or a disadvantageous one, the opposite state should be always present to your mind.”
 “By reinforcing every part, he weakens every part.”
 “Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted.”
 “When the common soldiers are too strong and their officers too weak, the result is INSUBORDINATION.”
 “The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.”
 “When the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is COLLAPSE.”
 “Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise;  for the result is waste of time and   general stagnation.”
 “To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great strength; to see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear.”
 “The general who does not advance to seek glory, or does not withdraw to avoid punishment, but cares for only the people's security and promotes the people's interests, is the nation's treasure.”
 “When the general is weak and without authority; when his orders are not clear and distinct; when there are no fixed duties assigned to officers and men, and the ranks are formed in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result is utter disorganization.”
 “No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique.”
 “O divine art of subtlety and secrecy! Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible, and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands.”
 “It is the unemotional, reserved, calm, detached warrior who wins, not the hothead seeking vengeance and not the ambitious seeker of fortune.”
 “Danger has a bracing effect.”
 “It is best to keep one’s own state intact; to crush the enemy’s state is only second best.”
 “There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads to capture; (3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; (4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame; (5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble.”
 “The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach.”
 “Hold out baits to entice the enemy. Feign disorder, and crush him.”
 “For the wise man delights in establishing his merit, the brave man likes to show his courage in action, the covetous man is quick at seizing advantages, and the stupid man has no fear of death.”
 “A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is keen, but attacks it when it is sluggish and inclined to return. This is the art of studying moods.”
 “Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible; and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands.”
 “We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country -- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps.”
 “The art of war is of vital importance to the State.”
 “So long as victory can be attained,  stupid haste is preferable to clever dilatoriness.”
 “He who relies solely on warlike measures shall be exterminated; he who relies solely on peaceful measures shall perish.”
 “These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand.”
 “If you do not take opportunity   to   advance and reward   the   deserving,   your subordinates will not carry out your commands, and disaster will ensue.”
 “Standing on the defensive indicates insufficient strength; attacking, a superabundance of strength.”
 “The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field.”
 “Sun Tzu said: The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.”
 “All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved.”
 “If we wish to wrest an advantage from the enemy, we must not fix our minds on that alone, but allow for the possibility of the enemy also doing some harm to us, and let this enter as a factor into our calculations.”
 “first lay plans which will ensure victory, and then lead your army to battle;  if you will not begin with stratagem but rely on brute strength alone, victory will no longer be assured”
 “When we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away...”
 “Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death.”
 “Therefore the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field.”
 “Know the enemy and know yourself; in a hundred battles you will never be in peril. When you are ignorant of the enemy, but know yourself, your chances of winning or losing are equal. If ignorant both of your enemy and yourself, you are certain in every battle to be in peril.”
 “Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him.”
 “The skillful employer of men will employ the wise man, the brave man, the covetous man, and the stupid man. For the wise man delights in establishing his merit, the brave man likes to show his courage in action, the covetous man is quick at seizing advantages, and the stupid man has no fear of death."]”
 “Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory is won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.”
 “To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence.”
 “Be stern in the council-chamber, [Show no weakness, and insist on your plans being ratified by the sovereign.] so that you may control the situation.”
 “Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognises nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) facile ground; (3) contentious ground; (4) open ground; (5) ground of intersecting highways; (6) serious ground; (7) difficult ground; (8) hemmed-in ground; (9) desperate ground.”
 “إن كنت تعلم قدراتك وقدرات خصمك, فما عليك أن تخشى من نتائج مئة معركة. وإن كنت تعرف قدرات نفسك, وتجهل قدرات خصمك, فلسوف تعاني من هزيمة ما في كل نصر مُكتسب. أما إن كنت تجهل قدرات نفسك, وتجهل قدرات عدوك... فالهزيمة المؤكدة هي حليفك في كل معركة !”
 “At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden,  until the enemy gives you an opening; afterwards emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and it will be too late for the enemy to oppose you.”
 “Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to capture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.”
 “You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.You can ensure the safety of your defence if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.”
 “Thus, what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is foreknowledge.”
 “You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.”
 “and addressed them thus: “I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?”
 “If we wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an engagement even though he be sheltered behind a high rampart and a deep ditch. All we need do is attack some other place that he will be obliged to relieve.”
 “15. In war, practice dissimulation, and you will succeed.”
 “Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.”
 “When an invading force crosses a river in its onward march, do not advance to meet it in mid-stream.  It will be best to let half the army get across, and then deliver your attack.”
 “On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way. On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies.”
 “Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State.”
 “All warfare is based on deception.”
 “Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.”
 “He wins his battles by making no mistakes.Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated.”
 “A leader leads by example not by force.”
 “When you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in coming, then men's weapons will grow dull and their ardour will be damped. If you lay siege to a town, you will exhaust your strength.”
 “For should the enemy strengthen his van, he will weaken his rear; should he strengthen his rear, he will weaken his van; should he strengthen his left, he will weaken his right; should he strengthen his right, he will weaken his left. If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.”
 “Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected.”
 “There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must be not attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed.”
 “licited from spirits; it cannot be obtained inductively from experience, nor by any”
 “Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground.”
 “Those who are skilled in combat do not become angered, those who are skilled at winning do not become afraid. Thus the wise win before they fight, while the ignorant fight to win.”
 “It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one, to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, to divide our army into two.”
 “If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we are always ready to seize an advantage, we may extricate ourselves from misfortune.”
 “Excessive rewards are a sign of desperation. Excessive punishments are a sign of exhaustion.”
 “There are not more than five primary colours, yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen.”
 “In difficult ground, press on; In encircled ground, devise stratagems; In death ground, fight.”
 “The answer was again in the affirmative, so arrangements were made to bring 180 ladies out of the Palace. Sun Tzu divided them into two companies, and placed one of the King's favourite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their hands, and addressed them thus: “I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?”
 “A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is keen, but attacks it when it is sluggish and inclined to return.”
 “Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy.”
 “The captured soldiers should be kindly treated and kept.”
 “To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.”
 “These are: (1) the Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) the Commander; (5) method and discipline.”
 “Sun Tzu Wu was a native of the Ch`i State. His Art of War brought him to the notice of Ho Lu, King of Wu. Ho Lu said to him: “I have carefully perused your 13 chapters. May I submit your theory of managing soldiers to a slight test?”
 “It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.”
 “Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted.”
 “Confucius said, “People may have the finest talents, but if they are arrogant and stingy, their other qualities are not worthy of consideration.”
 “Security against defeat implies defensive tactics; ability to defeat the enemy means taking the offensive.”
 “Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing.”
 “Knowledge of the enemy's dispositions can only be obtained from other men.”
 “Opportunistic relationships can hardly be kept constant. The acquaintance of honorable people, even at a distance, does not add flowers in times of warmth and does not change its leaves in times of cold: it continues unfading through the four seasons, becomes increasingly stable as it passes through ease and danger.”
 “To fight and conquer one hundred times is not the perfection of attainment, for the supreme art is to subdue the enemy without fighting.”
 “By method and discipline are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.”
 “The rising of birds in their flight is the sign of an ambuscade. Startled beasts indicate that a sudden attack is coming.”
 “Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.”
 “Some people think insufficiency means weakness and surplus means strength, but this impression is wrong.”
 “There are not more than five cardinal tastes, yet combinations of them yield more flavours than can ever be tasted.”
 “Where there are repeated wars, the people are weakened; when they score repeated victories, rulers become haughty. Let haughty rulers command weakened people, and rare is the nation that will not perish as a result.”
 “We become one body ; the enemy being separated into ten parts. We attack the divided ten with the united one. We are many, the enemy is few, and in superiority of numbers there is economy of strength.”
 “The general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple before the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations.”
 “El arte de la guerra se basa en el engaño. Por lo tanto, cuando es capaz de atacar, ha de aparentar incapacidad; cuando las trampas se mueven, aparentar inactividad.”
 “concubines”
 “Hence”
 “The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.”
 “Weapons are inauspicious instruments, not the tools of the enlightened. When there is no choice but to use them, it is best to be calm and free from greed, and not celebrate victory. Those who celebrate victory are bloodthirsty, and the bloodthirsty cannot have their way with the world.”
 “Cualquiera que tenga forma puede ser definido, y cualquiera que pueda ser definido puede ser vencido.”
 “The consummate leader cultivates the Moral Law, and strictly adheres to method and discipline; thus it is in his power to control success.”
 “In a similar way, The Art of War pinpoints anger and greed as fundamental causes of defeat.”
 “Sun Tzu said: In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough to carry them a thousand Li, the expenditure at home and at the front, including entertainment of guests, small items such as glue and paint, and sums spent on chariots and armour, will reach the total of a thousand ounces of silver per day. Such is the cost of raising an army of 100,000 men.”
 “choleric”
 “I have heard that the ancients used bows and arrows to their advantage.”
 “15. Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.”
 “Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courageunder a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is tobe effected by tactical dispositions.”
 “The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom. Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death.”
 “He who only sees the obvious, wins his battles with difficulty; he who looks below the surface of things, wins with ease”
 “The general, unable to control his irritation, will launch his men to the assault like swarming ants, with the result that one-third of his men are slain, while the town still remains untaken. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege.”
 “7. Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together.”
 “A government should not mobilize an army out of anger, military leaders should not provoke war out of wrath. Act when it is beneficial to do so, desist if not. Anger can revert to joy, wrath can revert to delight, but a nation destroyed cannot be restored to existence, and the dead cannot be restored to life.”
 “There are three avenues of opportunity: events, trends, and conditions. When opportunities occur through events but you are unable to respond, you are not smart. When opportunities become active through a trend and yet you cannot make plans, you are not wise. When opportunities emerge through conditions but you cannot act on them, you are not bold.”
 “The only chance of life lies in giving up all hope of it.”
 “Attack by Stratagem”
 “5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.”
 “My eldest brother sees the spirit of sickness and removes it before it takes shape, so his name does not get out of the house. My elder brother cures sickness when it is still extremely minute, so his name does not get out of the neighborhood. As for me, I puncture veins, prescribe potions, and massage skin, so from time to time my name gets out and is heard among the lords.”
 “provisions”
 “expenditure”
 “siege”
 “In respect of military method, we have, firstly, Measurement; secondly, Estimation of quantity; thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing of chances; fifthly, Victory.”
 “It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.”
 “Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots.”
 “Life and death are of supreme importance. Time passes swiftly by and opportunity is lost. Each of us should strive to awaken, awaken. Awaken! Take heed. Do not squander your life.”
 “prohibit omens altogether. You can best predict your future by controlling it yourself, not by trusting luck or fate to control it.”
 “The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain.”
 “If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame.”
 “Solving large, difficult problems may earn you a reputation for skillful negotiation, but Sun Tzu asserts that this supposed achievement is actually a form of failure, and having true wisdom means preventing difficult problems from arising in the first place. Ironically,”
 “Now by the laws of war, better than defeating a country by fire and the sword, is to take it without strife.”
 “Therefore the master of war causes the enemy's forces to yield, but without fighting ; he captures his fortress, but without besieging it ; and without lengthy fighting takes the enemy's kingdom. Without tarnishing his weapons he gains the complete advantage. This is the assault by stratagem.”
 “The Book of Army Management says: On the field of battle, the spoken word does not carry far enough: hence the institution of gongs and drums. Nor can ordinary objects be seen clearly enough: hence the institution of banners and flags.”
 “The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable.”
 “Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat.”
 “I have heard that in war haste can be folly, but have never seen delay that was wise.”
 “15. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single picul of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store.”
 “The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points; and his forces being thus distributed in many directions, the numbers we shall have to face at any given point will be proportionately few.”
 “One cat at the hole, and ten thousand mice dare not come out; one tiger in the valley, and ten thousand deer cannot pass through.”
 “The secret of getting successful work out of your trained men lies in one nutshell—in the clearness of the instructions they receive.”
 “Stir opponents up, making them respond to you; then you can observe their forms of behavior, and whether they are orderly or confused.”
 “to blame.”
 “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.”
 “Military formation is like water—the form of water is to avoid the high and go to the low, the form of a military force is to avoid the full and attack the empty; the flow of water is determined by the earth, the victory of a military force is determined by the opponent.”
 “So a military force has no constant formation, water has no constant shape: the ability to gain victory by changing and adapting according to the opponent is called genius.”
 “5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.Excerpt From: Sunzi. “The Art of War.” iBooks. This material may be protected by copyright.”
 “Plan for what is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small. The most difficult things in the world must be done while they are still easy, the greatest things in the world must be done while they are still small. For this reason sages never do what is great, and this is why they can achieve that greatness.”
 “I pee in the toilets of my enemies, so that when they flush my pee comes out”
 “III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM 1. Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them. 2. Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.”
 “If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.”
 “[T]o fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.”
 “If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.”
 “Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.”
 “One mark of a great soldier is that he fights on his own terms or fights not at all.”
 “Leadership is a matter of intelligence, trustworthiness, humaneness, courage, and sternness.”
 “These are: (1) the Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) the Commander; (5) method and discipline.”
 “Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your compactness that of the forest.”
 “Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.”
 “from the ancient Chinese commentators found in the Giles edition. Of these four, Giles' 1910 edition is the most scholarly and presents the reader an incredible amount of information concerning Sun Tzu's text, much more than any other translation. The Giles' edition of the ART OF WAR, as stated above, was a scholarly work. Dr. Giles was a leading sinologue at the time and an assistant in the Department”
 “8.    Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack. [An aphorism which puts the whole art of war in a nutshell.]”
 “When your strategy is deep and far-reaching, then what you gain by your calculations is much, so you can win before you even fight. When your strategic thinking is shallow and nearsighted, then what you gain by your calculations is little, so you lose before you do battle. Much strategy prevails over little strategy, so those with no strategy cannot but be defeated. Therefore it is said that victorious warriers win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win.”
 “About Sun Tzu himself this is all that Ssu-ma Ch`ien has to tell us in this chapter. But he proceeds to give a biography of his descendant, Sun Pin, born about a hundred years after his famous ancestor's death, and also the outstanding military genius of his time.”
 “Again, if the campaign is protracted, the resources of the State will not be equal to the strain.”
 “If the enemy know not where he will be attacked, he must prepare in every quarter, and so be everywhere weak.”
 “The PEOPLE being regarded as the essential part of the State, and FOOD as the people's heaven, is it not right that those in authority should value and be careful of both?"]”
 “Neither is it the acme of excellence if you fight and conquer and the whole Empire says, “Well done!”
 “[Once war is declared, he will not waste precious time in waiting for reinforcements, nor will he return his army back for fresh supplies, but crosses the enemy's frontier without delay.”
 “Again the girls assented. The words of command having been thus explained, he set up the halberds and battle-axes in order to begin the drill. Then, to the sound of drums, he gave the order “Right turn.” But the girls only burst out laughing. Sun Tzu said: “If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame.”
 “Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline; simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength.”
 “Cien vitorias en cien batallas no es la mayor habilidad. Someter al ejército de los otros sin batalla es la mayor habilidad.”
 “Accordingly, he had the two leaders beheaded, and straightway installed the pair next in order as leaders in their place. When this had been done, the drum was sounded for the drill once more; and the girls went through all the evolutions, turning to the right or to the left, marching ahead or wheeling back, kneeling or standing, with perfect accuracy and precision, not venturing to utter a sound. Then Sun Tzu sent a messenger to the King saying: “Your soldiers, Sire, are now properly drilled and disciplined, and ready for your majesty's inspection. They can be put to any use that their sovereign may desire; bid them go through fire and water, and they will not disobey.”
 “practise”
 “Be extremely subtle, even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely mysterious, even to the point of soundlessness. Thereby you can be the director of the opponent’s fate.”
 “while the main laws of strategy can be stated clearly enough for the benefit of all and sundry, you must be guided by the actions of the enemy in attempting to secure a favorable position in actual warfare.”
 “it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.”
 “However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, "excessively bad." He goes further in this criticism: "It is not merely a question of downright blunders, from which none can hope to be wholly exempt.”
 “Those who win every battle are not really skillful—those who render others’ armies helpless without fighting are the best of all.”
 “There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.”
 “bestowed”
 “To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great strength;to see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight;to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear.What the ancients called a clever fighter isone who not only wins,but excels in winning with ease.Hence his victories bring him neitherreputation for wisdomnor credit for courage.”
 “Do not press a desperate enemy.”
 “What Hurts the People There are five things that hurt the people: There are local officials who use public office for personal benefit, taking improper advantage of their authority, holding weapons in one hand and people’s livelihood in the other, corrupting their offices, and bleeding the people. There are cases where serious offenses are given light penalties; there is inequality before the law, and the innocent are subjected to punishment, even execution. Sometimes serious crimes are pardoned, the strong are supported, and the weak are oppressed. Harsh penalties are applied, unjustly torturing people to get at facts. Sometimes there are officials who condone crime and vice, punishing those who protest against this, cutting off the avenues of appeal and hiding the truth, plundering and ruining lives, unjust and arbitrary. Sometimes there are senior officials who repeatedly change department heads so as to monopolize the government administration, favoring their friends and relatives while treating those they dislike with unjust harshness, oppressive in their actions, prejudiced and unruly. They also use taxation to reap profit, enriching themselves and their families by exactions and fraud. Sometimes local officials extensively tailor awards and fines, welfare projects, and general expenditures, arbitrarily determining prices and measures, with the result that people lose their jobs. These five things are harmful to the people, and anyone who does any of these should be dismissed from office.”
 “If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him.”
 “Those skilled in warfare move the enemy, and are not moved by the enemy.”
 “The Way means inducing the people to have the same aim as the leadership,”
 “Traitez bien les prisonniers, nourissez-les comme vos propres soldats, afin qu'il se trouvent mieux chez vous qu'ils ne l'étaient dans leur propre camp ou dans leur patrie. (article II)”
 “It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected. 3.    The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one’s deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field. 4.    These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline.”
 “Continuer la lutte lorsqu'on est victorieux, c'est aussi bien diminuer ses propres forces qu'affaiblir le gage exigé du vaincu. (notes de L. Nachin (1948) sur l'article II)”
 “The true object of war is peace.”
 “Humble words and increased preparations are signs that the enemy is about to advance. Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat.”
 “Every animal with blood in its veins and horns on its head will fight when it is attacked.”
 “It is unlucky to be stubborn in the face of insurmountable odds”
 “21.  If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him. 22.  If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. [Wang Tzu, quoted by Tu Yu, says that the good tactician plays with his adversary as a cat plays with a mouse, first feigning weakness and immobility, and then suddenly pouncing upon him.] 23.  If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. [This is probably the meaning though Mei Yao-ch’en has the note: “while we are taking our ease, wait for the enemy to tire himself out.” The YU LAN has “Lure him on and tire him out.”] If his forces are united, separate them. [Less plausible is the interpretation favored by most of the commentators: “If sovereign and subject are in accord, put division between them.”] 24.  Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected. 25.  These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand. 26.  Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought. [Chang Yu tells us that in ancient times it was customary for a temple to be set apart for the use of a general who was about to take the field, in order that he might there elaborate his plan of campaign.] The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all! It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose.”
 “Though the enemy be stronger in numbers, we may prevent him from fighting. Scheme so as to discover his plans and the likelihood of their success.”
 “The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain. [This sentence contains one of those highly condensed and somewhat enigmatical expressions of which Sun Tzu is so fond. This is how it is explained by Ts’ao Kung: “Make it appear that you are a long way off, then cover the distance rapidly and arrive on the scene before your opponent.” Tu Mu says: “Hoodwink the enemy, so that he may be remiss and leisurely while you are dashing along with utmost speed.” Ho Shih gives a slightly different turn: “Although you may have difficult ground to traverse and natural obstacles to encounter this is a drawback which can be turned into actual advantage by celerity of movement.” Signal examples of this saying are afforded by the two famous passages across the Alps—that of Hannibal, which laid Italy at his mercy, and that of Napoleon two thousand years later, which resulted in the great victory of Marengo.] 4.    Thus, to take a long and circuitous route, after enticing the enemy out of the way, and though starting after him, to contrive to reach the goal before him, shows knowledge of the artifice of DEVIATION.”
 “17.  Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. [Chang Yu says: If he can fight, he advances and takes the offensive; if he cannot fight, he retreats and remains on the defensive. He will invariably conquer who knows whether it is right to take the offensive or the defensive.] (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces. [This is not merely the general’s ability to estimate numbers correctly, as Li Ch’uan and others make out. Chang Yu expounds the saying more satisfactorily: “By applying the art of war, it is possible with a lesser force to defeat a greater, and vice versa. The secret lies in an eye for locality, and in not letting the right moment slip. Thus Wu Tzu says: ‘With a superior force, make for easy ground; with an inferior one, make for difficult ground.’"] (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign. [Tu Yu quotes Wang Tzu as saying: “It is the sovereign’s function to give broad instructions, but to decide on battle it is the function of the general.” It is needless to dilate on the military disasters which have been caused by undue interference with operations in the field on the part of the home government. Napoleon undoubtedly owed much of his extraordinary success to the fact that he was not hampered by central authority.] 18.  Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.”
 “Asked if an army can be made to imitate the SHUAI-JAN, I should answer, Yes. For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are enemies; yet if they are crossing a river in the same boat and are caught by a storm, they will come to each other's assistance just as the left hand helps the right.”
 “see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear.”
 “He who wishes to fight must first count the cost,”
 “Know the enemy, know yourself and victory is never in doubt, not in a hundred battles.”
 “You must be swift as the wind, dense as the forest, rapacious as fire, steadfast like a mountain, mysterious as night and mighty as thunder.”
 “practice dissimulation, and you will succeed.”
 “La milicia es un Tao de engaños:De modo que cuando seas capaz, muestra incapacidad. Cuando seas activo, muestra inactividad.Cuando estés cerca, haz creer que estás lejos. Cuando estés lejos, haz creer que estás cerca.De modo que cuando el enemigo busque ventajas,los atraerás. Cuando se halle confundido, lo conquistarás. Cuando tenga consistencia, prepárate a enfrentarte a él. Cuando sea fuerte, evítalo. Cuando esté airado, acósalo. Atácale cuando no esté preparado.Surge allí donde no te espere.”
 “besiege”
 “I have three treasures that I keep and prize: one is kindness, second is frugality, and third is not presuming to take precedence over others. By kindness one can be brave, by frugality one can reach out, and by not presuming to take precedence one can survive effectively. If one gives up kindness and courage, gives up frugality and breadth, and gives up humility for aggressiveness, one will die. The exercise of kindness in battle leads to victory, the exercise of kindness in defense leads to security.”
 “17.  According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one’s plans. [Sun Tzu, as a practical soldier, will have none of the “bookish theoric.” He cautions us here not to pin our faith to abstract principles; “for,” as Chang Yu puts it, “while the main laws of strategy can be stated clearly enough for the benefit of all and sundry, you must be guided by the actions of the enemy in attempting to secure a favorable position in actual warfare.” On the eve of the battle of Waterloo, Lord Uxbridge, commanding the cavalry, went to the Duke of Wellington in order to learn what his plans and calculations were for the morrow, because, as he explained, he might suddenly find himself Commander-in-chief and would be unable to frame new plans in a critical moment. The Duke listened quietly and then said: “Who will attack the first tomorrow—I or Bonaparte?” “Bonaparte,” replied Lord Uxbridge. “Well,” continued the Duke, “Bonaparte has not given me any idea of his projects; and as my plans will depend upon his, how can you expect me to tell you what mine are?”75] 18.  All warfare is based on deception. [The truth of this pithy and profound saying will be admitted by every soldier. Col. Henderson tells us that Wellington, great in so many military qualities, was especially distinguished by “the extraordinary skill with which he concealed his movements and deceived both friend and foe.”] 19. ”
 “8.    The skillful soldier does not raise a second levy, neither are his supply-wagons loaded more than twice. [Once war is declared, he will”
 “[Li Ch’uan cites the case of Fu Chien, prince of Ch’in, who in 383 A.D. marched with a vast army against the Chin Emperor. When warned not to despise an enemy who could command the services of such men as Hsieh An and Huan Ch’ung, he boastfully replied: “I have the population of eight provinces at my back, infantry and horsemen to the number of one million; why, they could dam up the Yangtsze River itself by merely throwing their whips into the stream. What danger have I to fear?” Nevertheless, his forces were soon after disastrously routed at the Fei River, and he was obliged to beat a hasty retreat.] If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. [Chang Yu said: “Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.” He adds: “Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.” It would be hard to find a better epitome of the root-principle of war.]”
 “War is like a fire - if you do not put it out, it will burn itself out.”
 “13.  He wins his battles by making no mistakes. [Ch’en Hao says: “He plans no superfluous marches, he devises no futile attacks.” The connection of ideas is thus explained by Chang Yu: “One who seeks to conquer by sheer strength, clever though he may be at winning pitched battles, is also liable on occasion to be vanquished; whereas he who can look into the future and discern conditions that are not yet manifest, will never make a blunder and therefore invariably win.”] Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated. 14.  Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy. [A “counsel of perfection” as Tu Mu truly observes. “Position” need not be confined to the actual ground occupied by the troops. It includes all the arrangements and preparations which a wise general will make to increase the safety of his army.] 15.  Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory. [Ho Shih thus expounds the paradox: “In warfare, first lay plans which will ensure victory, and then lead your army to battle; if you will not begin with stratagem but rely on brute strength alone, victory will no longer be assured.”] 16.  The consummate leader cultivates the moral law, and strictly adheres to method and discipline; thus it is in his power to control success. 17.  In respect of military method, we have, firstly, Measurement; secondly, Estimation of quantity; thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing of chances; fifthly, Victory. 18.  Measurement owes its existence to Earth; Estimation of quantity to Measurement; Calculation to Estimation of quantity; Balancing of chances to Calculation; and Victory to Balancing of chances. [It is not easy to distinguish the four terms very clearly in the Chinese. The”
 “Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.” He adds: “Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.” It”
 “The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent.’” To put it perhaps a little more clearly: any attack or other operation is CHENG, on which the enemy has had his attention fixed; whereas that is CH’I,” which takes him by surprise or comes from an unexpected quarter. If the enemy perceives a movement which is meant to be CH’I,” it immediately becomes CHENG.”] 4.    That the impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed against an egg— this is effected by the science of weak points and strong. 5.    In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory. [Chang Yu says: “Steadily develop indirect tactics, either by pounding the enemy’s flanks or falling on his rear.” A brilliant example of “indirect tactics” which decided the fortunes of a campaign was Lord Roberts’ night march round the Peiwar Kotal in the second Afghan war.76 6.    Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are inexhausible as Heaven and Earth, unending as the flow of rivers and streams; like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more. [Tu Yu and Chang Yu understand this of the permutations of CH’I and CHENG.” But at present Sun Tzu is not speaking of CHENG at all, unless, indeed, we suppose with Cheng Yu-hsien that a clause relating to it has fallen out of the text. Of course, as has already been pointed out, the two are so inextricably interwoven in all military operations, that they cannot really be considered apart. Here we simply have an expression, in figurative language, of the almost infinite resource of a great leader.] 7.    There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard. 8.    There are not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen. 9.    There are”
 “1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognizes nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) Facile ground; (3) Contentious ground; (4) Open ground; (5) Ground of intersecting highways; (6) Serious ground; (7) Difficult ground; (8) Hemmed-in ground; (9) Desperate ground.”
 “10.  In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack—the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers. 11.  The direct and the indirect lead on to each other in turn. It is like moving in a circle—you never come to an end. Who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination? 12.  The onset of troops is like the rush of a torrent which will even roll stones along in its course. 13.  The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim. [The Chinese here is tricky and a certain key word in”
 “The host thus forming a single united body, is it impossible either for the brave to advance alone, or for the cowardly to retreat alone”
 “Using order to deal with the disorderly, using calm to deal with the clamorous, is mastering the heart.”
 “the Completer and Wu Wang all used spears and battle-axes in order to succor their generation. The SSU-MA FA says: "If one man slay another of set purpose, he himself”
 “[The Chinese here is tricky and a certain key word in the context it is used defies the best efforts of the translator. Tu Mu defines this word as “the measurement or estimation of distance.” But this meaning does not quite fit the illustrative simile in ss. 15. Applying this definition to the falcon, it seems to me to denote that instinct of SELF RESTRAINT which keeps the bird from swooping on its quarry until the right moment, together with the power of judging when the right moment has arrived. The analogous quality in soldiers is the highly important one of being able to reserve their fire until the very instant at which it will be most effective. When the “Victory” went into action at Trafalgar at hardly more than drifting pace, she was for several minutes exposed to a storm of shot and shell before replying with a single gun. Nelson coolly waited until he was within close range, when the broadside he brought to bear worked fearful havoc on the enemy’s nearest ships.] 14.  Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision. [The word “decision” would have reference to the measurement of distance mentioned above, letting the enemy get near before striking. But I cannot help thinking that Sun Tzu meant to use the word in a figurative sense comparable to our own idiom “short and sharp.” Cf. Wang Hsi’s note, which after describing the falcon’s mode of attack, proceeds: “This is just how the ‘psychological moment’ should be seized in war.”]”
 “If you wish to feign confusion in order to lure the enemy on, you must first have perfect discipline; if you wish to display timidity in order to entrap the enemy, you must have extreme courage; if you wish to parade your weakness in order to make the enemy over-confident, you must have exceeding strength.”] 18.  Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; [See supra, ss. 1.] concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; [The commentators strongly understand a certain Chinese word here differently than anywhere else in this chapter. Thus Tu Mu says: “seeing that we are favorably circumstanced and yet make no move, the enemy will believe that we are really afraid.”] masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions.”
 “Perhaps the most foundational of these insights is the importance of maintaining an objective emotional detachment when calculating your position relative to your adversary’s. Being ruled by your emotions, exaggerating your strengths, denying your weaknesses, and wishful thinking can only lead to catastrophe. But maintaining your impartiality will allow you to see your circumstances with clarity and will provide opportunities to make sound decisions and respond to changing circumstances appropriately.”
 “Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical.”
 “[Chang Yu relates the following anecdote of Kao Tsu, the first Han Emperor: “Wishing to crush the Hsiung-nu, he sent out spies to report on their condition. But the Hsiung-nu, forewarned, carefully concealed all their able-bodied men and well-fed horses, and only allowed infirm soldiers and emaciated cattle to be seen. The result was that spies one and all recommended the Emperor to deliver his attack. Lou Ching alone opposed them, saying: “When two countries go to war, they are naturally inclined to make an ostentatious display of their strength. Yet our spies have seen nothing but old age and infirmity. This is surely some ruse on the part of the enemy, and it would be unwise for us to attack.” The Emperor, however, disregarding this advice, fell into the trap and found himself surrounded at Po-teng.”] 19.  Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act. [Ts’ao Kung’s note is “Make a display of weakness and want.” Tu Mu says: “If our force happens to be superior to the enemy’s, weakness may be simulated in order to lure him on; but if inferior, he must be led to believe that we are strong, in order that he may keep off. In fact, all the enemy’s movements should be determined by the signs that we choose to give him.” Note the following anecdote of Sun Pin, a descendent of Sun Wu: In 341 B.C., the Ch’i State being at war with Wei, sent T’ien Chi and Sun Pin against the general P’ang Chuan, who happened to be a deadly personal enemy of the later. Sun Pin said: “The Ch’i State has a reputation for cowardice, and therefore our adversary despises us. Let us turn this circumstance to account.” Accordingly, when the army had crossed the border into Wei territory, he gave orders to show 100,000 fires on the first night, 50,000 on the next, and the night after only 20,000. P’ang Chuan pursued them hotly, saying to himself: “I knew these men of Ch’i were cowards: their numbers have already fallen away by more than half.” In his retreat, Sun Pin came to a narrow defile, with he calculated that his pursuers would reach after dark. Here he had a tree stripped of its bark, and inscribed upon it the words: “Under this tree shall P’ang Chuan die.” Then, as night began to fall, he placed a strong body of archers in ambush near by, with orders to shoot directly they saw a light. Later on, P’ang Chuan arrived at the spot, and noticing the tree, struck a light in order to read what was written on it. His body was immediately riddled by a volley of arrows, and his whole army thrown into confusion. [The above is Tu Mu’s version of the story; the SHIH CHI, less dramatically but probably with more historical truth, makes P’ang Chuan cut his own throat with an exclamation of despair, after the rout of his army.] ] He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it. 20.  By holding out baits, he keeps him on the march; then with a body of picked men he lies in wait for him. [With an emendation suggested by Li Ching, this then reads, “He lies in wait with the main body of his troops.”] 21.  The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals.”
 “Their action and inaction are matters of strategy, and they cannot be pleased or angered.”
 “Flexibility in our lives means having a fundamental ability to relate to any new environment and excel in it. Instead of fighting it, you greet it with open arms and observe it; instead of criticizing it, you caress it and understand it; instead of ignoring it, you make it yours and be one with it.”
 “1.    Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted. 2.    Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy’s will to be imposed on him. [One mark of a great soldier is that he fight on his own terms or fights not at all.77 ] 3.    By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near. [In the first case, he will entice him with a bait; in the second, he will strike at some important point which the enemy will have to defend.] 4.    If the enemy is taking his ease, he can harass him; [This passage may be cited as evidence against Mei Yao-Ch’en’s interpretation of I. ss. 23.] if well supplied with food, he can starve him out; if quietly encamped, he can force him to move. 5.    Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected. 6.    An army may march great distances without distress, if it marches through country where the enemy is not. [Ts’ao Kung sums up very well: “Emerge from the void [q.d. like “a bolt from the blue”], strike at vulnerable points, shun places that are defended, attack in unexpected quarters.”] 7.    You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended. [Wang Hsi explains “undefended places” as “weak points; that is to say, where the general is lacking in capacity, or the soldiers in spirit; where the walls are not strong enough, or the precautions not strict enough; where relief comes too late, or provisions are too scanty, or the defenders are variance amongst themselves.”] You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked. [I.e., where there are none of the weak points mentioned above. There is rather a nice point involved in the interpretation of this later clause. Tu”
 “If rewards are immoderate, there will be expenditure that does not result in gratitude; if punishments are immoderate, there will be slaughter that does not result in awe.”
 “Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards. [Tu Mu says: "Rewards”
 “12.  If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way. [This extremely concise expression is intelligibly paraphrased by Chia Lin: “even though we have constructed neither wall nor ditch.” Li Ch’uan says: “we puzzle him by strange and unusual dispositions;” and Tu Mu finally clinches the meaning by three illustrative anecdotes—one of Chu-ko Liang, who when occupying Yang-p’ing and about to be attacked by Ssu-ma I, suddenly struck his colors, stopped the beating of the drums, and flung open the city gates, showing only a few men engaged in sweeping and sprinkling the ground. This unexpected proceeding had the intended effect; for Ssu-ma I, suspecting an ambush, actually drew off his army and retreated. What Sun Tzu is advocating here, therefore, is nothing more nor less than the timely use of “bluff.”]”
 “When strong, appear weak. Brave, appear fearful. Orderly, appear chaotic. Full, appear empty. Wise, appear foolish. Many, appear to be few. Advancing, appear to retreat. Moving quickly, appear to be slow. Taking, appear to leave. In one place, appear to be in another.”
 “The victorious army is victorious first and seeks battle later; the defeated army seeks battle first and seeks victory later.”
 “Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue.”
 “King’s favorite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their hands, and addressed them thus: “I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?”
 “as swift as wind, as gentle as forest, as fierce as fire, as unshakable as mountain”
 “EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death.”
 “Hence it is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for purposes of spying and thereby they achieve great results. Spies are a most important element in water, because on them depends an army’s ability to move.”
 “He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.”
 “Master Sun So it is said that if you know others and know yourself, you will not be imperiled in a hundred battles; if you do not know others but know yourself, you win one and lose one; if you do not know others and do not know yourself, you will be imperiled in every single battle.”
 “When the speed of rushing water reaches the point where it can move boulders, this is the force of momentum. When the speed of a hawk is such that it can strike and kill, this is precision. So it is with skillful warriors—their force is swift, their precision is close. Their force is like drawing a catapult, their precision is like releasing the trigger.”
 “If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders are clear, and the soldiers nevertheless disobey, then it is the fault of their officers.”
 “Thus the energy developed by good fighting men isas the momentum of a round stone rolled down amountain thousands of feet in height. So much on thesubject of energy.”
 “When you look into the signs of war, you find they are in the mind. When there is unexpressed anger in the heart, this is already war! Hateful looks and angry faces are war; boastful words and shoving matches are war. Exaggerated contention and aggressive combat are war.”
 “Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.”
 “22. If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.”
 “42. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless. 43. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline. This is a certain road to victory. 44. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad.”
 “These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline.”
 “Maneuvering with an army is advantageous; with an undisciplined multitude, most dangerous.”
 “Where unity is missing between individuals, the resolution may be simple, but where diversity of interest is dictated by the underlying social, economic, political, or other structure of an interaction or relation, the problem of consensus and cooperation can become correspondingly complex.”
 “Go forth armed without determining strategy, and you will destroy yourself in battle.”
 “Hostile armies may face each other for years, striving for the victory which is decided in a single day. This being so, to remain in ignorance of the enemy's condition simply because one grudges the outlay of a hundred ounces of silver in honors and emoluments, is the height of inhumanity.”
 “Employing the officers of his army without discrimination, through ignorance of the military principle of adaptation to circumstances. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers.”
 “Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack.”
 “Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting. 3.”
 “With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete. This is the method of attacking by stratagem. 8.”
 “Thus,  what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is FOREKNOWLEDGE.”
 “Victory in war is apparent to all, but the science of ensuring victory is a mysterious secret, generally unknown.”
 “(1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign. 18. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.”
 “Therefore victory in war is not repetitious, but adapts its form endlessly.”
 “The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision.”
 “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.     IV.”
 “Measurement owes its existence to Earth; Estimation of quantity to Measurement; Calculation to Estimation of quantity; Balancing of chances to Calculation; and Victory to Balancing of chances.”
 “Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same in principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.”
 “If pacific negotiations are in progress, warlike preparations should have been made beforehand.” He rebuked and shamed the Marquis of Ch`i, who cowered under him and dared not proceed to violence. How can it be said that these two great Sages had no knowledge of military matters?”
 “Warfare is the Way of deception.13 Therefore, if able, appear unable; if active, appear not active; if near, appear far; if far, appear near. If they have advantage, entice them; if they are confused, take them; if they are substantial, prepare for them; if they are strong, avoid them; if they are angry, disturb them; if they are humble, make them haughty; if they are relaxed, toil them; if they are united, separate them. Attack where they are not prepared, go out to where they do not expect.14 This specialized warfare leads to victory, and may not be transmitted beforehand.15”
 “passivity means waiting for an opportunity,”
 “If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless.”
 “MASTER SUN There are only five notes in the musical scale, but their variations are so many that they cannot all be heard. There are only five basic colors, but their variations are so many that they cannot all be seen. There are only five basic flavors, but their variations are so many that they cannot all be tasted. There are only two kinds of charge in battle, the unorthodox surprise attack and the orthodox direct attack, but variations of the unorthodox and the orthodox are endless. The unorthodox and the orthodox give rise to each other, like a beginningless circle—who could exhaust them? M”
 “Soldiers must be first treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline.”
 “One who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it.”
 “Thus the good fighter is able to secure himself against defeat, but cannot make certain of defeating the enemy. 4. Hence the saying: One may know how to conquer without being able to do it.”
 “18. A sovereign cannot raise an army because he is enraged, nor can a general fight because he is resentful. For while an angered man may again be happy, and resentful man again be pleased, a state that has perished cannot be restored, nor can the dead be brought back to life. 19. Therefore, the enlightened ruler is prudent and the good general is warned against rash action. Thus, the state is kept secure and the army preserved.”
 “The general is the prop Of the nation. When the prop is solid, The nation is strong. When the prop is flawed, The nation is weak.”
 “In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory.”
 “Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all! It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose.”
 “He wins his battles by making no mistakes.”
 “The general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple before the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand.”
 “A victorious army opposed to a routed one, is as a pound’s weight placed in the scale against a single grain.”
 “By METHOD AND DISCIPLINE are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure. 11.  These five heads should be familiar to every general: he who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail.”
 “Confront your soldiers with the deed itself; never let them know your design. When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.”
 “Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your compactness that of the forest.In raiding and plundering be like fire, in immovability like a mountain.Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.”
 “Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy’s resistance without fighting.”
 “How many times in your life could you have abated conflicts if you had taken the time to deliberate on your problems in quiet contemplation—for example, taking a quiet walk—to think about your capabilities and limitations, and the likely gains and losses of taking action? By removing yourself from the immediate, stressful situation, you also take out the emotion that often prompts you to make rash, thoughtless decisions. The”
 “5, 6. The MORAL LAW causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.”
 “8.    EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death. 9.    The COMMANDER stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerely, benevolence, courage and strictness.”
 “Chapter1Laying Plans”
 “16.  While heading the profit of my counsel, avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the ordinary rules. 17.  According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one’s plans.”
 “an angry man can later become happy, a resentful man can become pleased, but a kingdom once destroyed can never be restored nor the dead brought back to life”
 “6.    There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare. 7.    It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on. [That is, with rapidity. Only one who knows the disastrous effects of a long war can realize the supreme importance of rapidity in bringing it to a close. Only”
 “All warfare is based on deception. Therefore, when capable, pretend to be incapable; when active, inactive; when near, make the enemy believe that you are far away; when far away; that you are near.”
 “There are only five primary colours,13 but when blended, their shades and hues are limitless.”
 “Therefore, the skillful commander imposes his will on the enemy by making the enemy come to him instead of being brought to the enemy.”
 “Those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear; [More literally, "cause the front and rear to lose touch with each other."] to prevent co-operation between his large and small divisions; to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, the officers from rallying their men. 16. When the enemy's men were united, they managed to keep them in disorder.”
 “When you start a fire, be to windward of it. Do not attack from the leeward.”
 “By discovering the enemy’s dispositions and remaining invisible ourselves, we can keep our forces concentrated, while the enemy’s must be divided.”
 “3.    Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy’s plans; [Perhaps the word “balk” falls short of expressing the full force of the Chinese word, which implies not an attitude of defense, whereby one might be content to foil the enemy’s stratagems one after another, but an active policy of counter-attack. Ho Shih puts this very clearly in his note: “When the enemy has made a plan of attack against us, we must anticipate him by delivering our own attack first.”] the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy’s forces; [Isolating him from his allies. We must not forget that Sun Tzu, in speaking of hostilities, always has in mind the numerous states or principalities into which the China of his day was split up.] the next in order is to attack the enemy’s army in the field; [When he is already at full strength.] and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities. 4.    The rule is, not to besiege walled cities if it can possibly be avoided.”
 “To see victory only when it is within the ken of the common herd is not the acme of excellence.”
 “[The superstitious, "bound in to saucy doubts and fears," degenerate into cowards and "die many times before their deaths.”
 “He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. (2)”
 “He wins his battles by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated.”
 “7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.”
 “28.  Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances. [As Wang Hsi sagely remarks: “There is but one root-principle underlying victory, but the tactics which lead up to it are infinite in number.” With this compare Col. Henderson: “The rules of strategy are few and simple. They may be learned in a week. They may be taught by familiar illustrations or a dozen diagrams. But such knowledge will no more teach a man to lead an army like Napoleon than a knowledge of grammar will teach him to write like Gibbon.”] 29.  Military tactics are like unto water; for water in its natural course runs away from high places and hastens downwards. 30.  So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong and to strike at what is weak. [Like water, taking the line of least resistance.] 31.  Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing. 32.  Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions. 33.  He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a heaven-born captain. 34.  The five elements (water, fire, wood, metal, earth) are not always equally predominant; [That is, as Wang Hsi says: “they predominate alternately.”] the four seasons make way for each other in turn. [Literally, “have no invariable seat.”] There are short days and long; the moon has its periods of waning and waxing. [Cf. V. ss. 6. The purport of the passage is simply to illustrate the want of fixity in war by the changes constantly taking place in Nature. The comparison is not very happy, however, because the regularity of the phenomena which Sun Tzu mentions is by no means paralleled in war.]”
 “The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals. Hence his ability to pick out the right men and to utilise combined energy.”
 “He who does not know the evils of war cannot appreciate its benefits,”
 “Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.” It”
 “[The five cardinal virtues of the Chinese are (1) humanity or benevolence; (2) uprightness of mind; (3) self-respect, self- control, or "proper feeling;" (4) wisdom; (5) sincerity or good faith.”
 “Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise: — 12. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? (5) Which army is stronger? (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained? (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment? 13. By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat.”
 “When you go out the door, be as if you were seeing an enemy.” And Shi Li said, “Be prepared, and you will not be defeated.” When”
 “So morning energy is keen, midday energy slumps, evening energy recedes—therefore those skilled in use of arms avoid the keen energy and strike the slumping and receding. These are those who master energy.”
 “Do not pursue an enemy who simulates flight; do not attack soldiers whose temper is keen.”
 “Therefore the considerations of the intelligent always include both benefit and harm. As they consider benefit, their work can expand; as they consider harm, their troubles can be resolved.”
 “Without constant practice, the officers will be nervous and undecided when mustering for battle; without constant practice, the general will be wavering and irresolute when the crisis is at hand."]”
 “First, measurement; second, quantity; third, calculation; fourth, comparison; and fifth, victory.”
 “The factors in warfare are: First, measurement; second, quantity; third, calculation; fourth, comparison; and fifth, victory.”
 “There are not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, bitter), yet combinations of them yield more flavors than can ever be tasted.”
 “Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays. In all history, there is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.”
 “The comparison is not very happy, however, because the regularity of the phenomena which Sun Tzu mentions is by no means paralleled in war.]”
 “Warfare is the Way of deception.”
 “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.”
 “Master Sun A military operation involves deception. Even though you are competent, appear to be incompetent. Though effective, appear to be ineffective.”
 “Having collected an army and concentrated his forces, he must blend and harmonize the different elements thereof before pitching his camp. [“Chang Yu says: “the establishment of harmony and confidence between the higher and lower ranks before venturing into the field;”
 “What the ancients called a skilful fighter is one who not only wins but wins with ease...He wins by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes means having already established the certainty of victory; conquering an enemy who is already defeated.”
 “Solving large, difficult problems may earn you a reputation for skillful negotiation, but Sun Tzu asserts that this supposed achievement is actually a form of failure, and having true wisdom means preventing difficult problems from arising in the first place. Ironically, this highest form of efficacy will often go unnoticed by many people, since the leader’s work seems so effortless and subtle. This foresight may not earn you a great reputation, but Sun Tzu also believed that bravery and greatness involve shunning what other people think of you, both praise and criticism, and doing what you believe is the right thing. A brave person forgoes his or her own ego and well-being, and acts with neither fear of punishment nor expectation of reward.”
 “Above the Fray, You Have No Fear Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war rise up against me, yet I will be confident.”
 “It is best to win without fighting.”
 “Sun Tzu: "If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders ARE clear, and the soldiers nevertheless disobey, then it is the fault of their officers.”
 “De ahí el dicho: conoce al enemigo y conócete a ti mismo, y sobre tu victoria no caerán dudas; conoce el Cielo y la Tierra, y tu victoria estará asegurada del todo.”
 “All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.”
 “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid to waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand”
 “What is perhaps most characteristically Taoist about The Art of War in such a way as to recommend itself to the modern day is the manner in which power is continually tempered by a profound undercurrent of humanism.”
 “Military weapons are the means used by the Sage to punish violence and cruelty, to give peace to troublous times, to remove difficulties and dangers, and to succor those who are in peril. Every”
 “Taoism has fostered both material and mental progress, both technological development and awareness of the potential dangers of that very development, always striving to encourage balance between the material and spiritual sides of humankind.”
 “When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because, according to Dr. Giles, "[I]t contains a great deal that Sun Tzu did not write, and very little indeed of what he did." The first translation into English was published in 1905 in Tokyo by Capt. E. F. Calthrop, R.F.A. However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, "excessively bad." He goes further in this criticism: "It is not merely a question of downright blunders, from which none can hope to be wholly exempt.”
 “16. While we keep away from such places, we should get the enemy to approach them; while we face them, we should let the enemy have them on his rear.”
 “Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose.”
 “Those who are able to adapt and change in accord with the enemy and achieve victory are called divine.”
 “What then shall be said of those scholars of our time, blind to all great issues, and without any appreciation of relative values, who can only bark out their stale formulas about “virtue” and “civilization,” condemning the use of military weapons? They will surely bring our country to impotence and dishonor and the loss of her rightful heritage; or, at the very least, they will bring about invasion and rebellion, sacrifice of territory and general enfeeblement. Yet they obstinately refuse to modify the position they have taken up. The truth is that, just as in the family the teacher must not spare the rod, and punishments cannot be dispensed with in the State, so military chastisement can never be allowed to fall into abeyance in the Empire. All one can say is that this power will be exercised wisely by some, foolishly by others, and that among those who bear arms some will be loyal and others rebellious.”
 “There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare. 7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.”
 “when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.”
 “La invencibilidad está en uno mismo, la vulnerabilidad en el adversario. Por esto, los guerreros expertos pueden ser invencibles, pero no pueden hacer que sus adversarios sean vulnerables.”
 “Война - это путь обмана. Поэтому, даже если [ты] способен,показывай противнику свою неспособность. Когда должен ввести в бойсвои силы, притворись бездеятельным. Когда [цель] близко, показывай,будто она далеко; когда же она действительн далеко, создавайвпечатление, что она близко. Изобрази выгоду, чтобы завлечь его. Сотвори беспорядок [в егосилах] и возьми его. Если он полон, приготовься; если он силен, избегай его. Если он в гневе, беспокой его; будь почтителен, чтобы он возомнил осебе. Если враг отдохнувший, заставь его напрячь силы. Если он объединен, разъедини его. Нападай там, где он не приготовился. Или вперед там, где он не ожидает. Таковы пути, которыми военные стратеги побеждают. Но о них нельзяговорить наперед.”
 “LI QUAN If they ply you with expensive gifts and sweet talk, they are up to something.”
 “Находясь в порядке, ждут беспорядка; находясь в спокойствии, ждут волнений; это и есть управление сердцем.”
 “2. To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.”
 “Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content. 21. But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life. 22. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution. This is the way to keep a country at peace and an army intact.”
 “In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack—the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers.”
 “Sun Tzu said: "If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame.”
 “Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength.”
 “Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds of terrain, to wit: (1) Accessible ground; (2) Entangling ground;               (3) Temporizing ground;               (4) Narrow passes; (5) Precipitous heights; (6) Positions at a great distance from the enemy.”
 “The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy’s not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not”
 “marshes”
 “A general who advances without thought of personal glory, and retreats without a care for disgrace, who thinks only of protecting the people and benefiting his ruler - such a man is a treasure beyond price to his country.”
 “Ban all omen-taking and superstitious practices so that death is all they have to worry about.”
 “Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy.”
 “Invincible is the soldier who hath his desire and returneth homewards.” A”
 “instance”
 “If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. [Chang Yu said: “Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.”
 “If you govern a country by listening to the arguments of a multitude of people, the country will be in danger in no time at all. How do we know this is so? Lao-tzu emphasized flexibility, Confucius emphasized humaneness, Mo-tzu emphasized universality, the Keeper of the Pass emphasized purity, Lieh-tzu emphasized emptiness, Ch’en Ping emphasized equality, Yang Chu emphasized self, Sun Pin emphasized power, Wang Liao emphasized initiative, Ni Liang emphasized conformism. Using bells and drums is a means of unifying ears; making law and order uniform is a way of unifying minds. When the smart ones can’t be clever and the stupid ones can’t be clumsy, this is a means of unifying a mass.”
 “The MORAL LAW causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger. 7. HEAVEN signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons. 8. EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death. 9. The COMMANDER stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerely, benevolence, courage and strictness. 10. By METHOD AND DISCIPLINE are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.”
 “If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. 23.”
 “Know thy enemy”
 “[Chang Yu says: "If they are in an awkward place together, they will surely exert their united strength to get out of it."] 24.”
 “When Sun Tzu spoke of victory, this is what he meant—the prevention or quick resolution of conflict, not the conquering of your opponent.”
 “When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because, according to Dr. Giles, "[I]t contains a great deal that Sun Tzu did not write, and very little indeed of what he did." The first translation into English was published”
 “For Sun Tzu, the fundamental mechanism to ending conflict is to achieve a massive imbalance of power and resources over your opponent, and then to leverage that imbalance so skillfully and decisively that your foe is utterly overwhelmed and chooses to surrender rather than fight.”
 “The Giles' edition of the ART OF WAR, as stated above, was a scholarly work.”
 “inquiry”
 “Triunfa el que elabora una táctica para conseguirlo, aprovecha su oportunidad, acepta sus debilidades y reconoce sus fortalezas.”
 “dilatoriness.”
 “The skilled can fill their people with energy to confront the emptiness of others, while the incompetent drain their people of energy in face of the fullness of others.”
 “The reason why Sun Tzu at the head of 30,000 men beat Ch’u with 200,000 is that the latter were undisciplined.” Teng”
 “YUEH”
 “• اتخاذك الوضع الدفاعي يشير إلى قوة غير كافية، بينما الهجوم يستلزم توفر القوة الزائدة.”
 “La strategia è la via del paradosso. Così, chi è abile, si mostri maldestro; chi è utile, si mostri inutile. Chi è affabile, si mostri scostante; chi è scostante, si mostri affabile.”
 “Si vos ennemis sont plus puissants et plus forts que vous, vous ne les attaquerez point, vous éviterez avec un grand soin ce qui peut conduire à un engagement général ; vous cacherez toujours avec une extrême attentionl'état où vous vous trouverez.”
 “- هاجم عدوك حين تعرض عليه السلم. وتحاشاه حين يتوقع منك الهجوم.”
 “[There is less precision in the Chinese than I have thought it well to introduce into my translation, and the commentaries on the passage are by no means explicit. But, having regard to the context, we can hardly doubt that Sun Tzu is holding up I Chih and Lu Ya as illustrious”
 “…tardiness can never be anything but foolish…”
 “Heaven and earth are not humanistic—they regard myriad beings as straw dogs; sages are not humanistic—they regard people as straw dogs,”
 “stupid haste is preferable to clever dilatoriness.”
 “Las notas musicales son sólo cinco, pero sus melodías son tan numerosas que no podemos oírlas todas.Los colores primarios son sólo cinco, pero sus combinaciones son tan infinitas que no podemos verlas todas.Los gustos son sólo cinco, pero sus mezclas son tan variadas que no podemos saborearlas todas.”
 “14.  By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat. 15.  The general that hearkens to my counsel and acts upon it, will conquer:—let such a one be retained in command! The general that hearkens not to my counsel nor acts upon it, will suffer defeat:—let such a one be dismissed!”
 “Scouting,”
 “Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death. 26. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose.”
 “mountain. Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.”
 “the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together.”
 “a classic yields significantly different meanings when read in different circumstances and moods; on a larger scale, a classic conveys wholly different worlds when read in different times of life, at different stages of experience, feeling, and understanding of life. Classics may be interesting and even entertaining, but people always find they are not like books used for diversion, which give up all of their content at once; the classics seem to grow wiser as we grow wiser, more useful the more we use them.”
 “to be well-fed while the enemy is famished: — this is the art of husbanding one’s strength.”
 “WANG XI Opponents cannot exhaust you.”
 “Co se týče proher (vad) vojevůdce:První: je neschopný, avšak je přesvědčen o svých schopnostech.Druhá: domýšlivost.Třetí: bažení po hodnostech.Čtvrtá: lačnost po majetku....Šestá: lehkovážnost.Sedmá: hloupost.Osmá: nedostatek odvahy.Devátá: odvaha se slabostí.Desátá: nespolehlivost....Čtrnáctá: nerozhodnostPatnáctá: pomalost.Šestnáctá: lhostejnost.Sedmnáctá: útlak.Osmnáctá: krutost.Devatenáctá: sobeckost.Dvacátá: působení zmatku.Je-li proher (vad) mnoho, bude mnoho ztrát.Má-li vojevůdce jedinou z těchto chyb, dav se nepodvolí. Je-li postižen dvěma z nich, bude vojsku chybět pořádek. Má-li tři z nich, lidé jemu podřízení ho opustí. Má-li čtyři z nich, postihne neštěstí celou zemi.”
 “purposely ignored by him. [16] Tu Mu's conjecture seems to be based”
 “to concentrate or to divide your troops, must be decided by circumstances.      17. Let your rapidity be that of the wind, [The simile is doubly”
 “(3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; [Tu Mu tells us that Yao Hsing, when opposed in 357 A.D. by Huang Mei, Teng Ch’iang and others shut himself up behind his walls and refused to fight. Teng Ch’iang said: “Our adversary is of a choleric temper and easily provoked; let us make constant sallies and break down his walls, then he will grow angry and come out. Once we can bring his force to battle, it is doomed to be our prey.” This plan was acted upon, Yao Hsiang came out to fight, was lured as far as San-yuan by the enemy’s pretended flight, and finally attacked and slain.]”
 “       He places placidity above all                And refuses to prettify weapons;        If one prettifies weapons,                This is to delight in the killing of other..”
 “is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.”
 “the highest excellence is winning without fighting, not decimating every adversary you encounter. Since destruction clearly isn’t your goal and victory is, leaving things intact maximizes your gains and helps you to mend your fences with your adversary.”
 “In raiding and plundering be like fire, is immovability like a mountain.”
 “holding a position from which the enemy is trying to dislodge you, or perhaps, as Tu Yu says, when he is trying to entice you into a”
 “and were closely pursued by Pan Ch`ao. Over 5000 heads were brought back as trophies, besides immense spoils in the shape of horses and cattle and valuables of every description. Yarkand then capitulating, Kutcha and the other kingdoms drew off their respective forces. From that time forward, Pan Ch`ao's prestige completely overawed the countries of the west." In this case, we see that the Chinese general not only kept his own officers in ignorance of his real plans, but actually took the bold step of dividing his army in order to deceive the”
 “Si nous voulons que la gloire et les succès accompagnent nos armes, nous ne devons jamais perdre de vue : la doctrine, le temps, l'espace, le commandement, la discipline.”
 “such astonishing rapidity that he was able to occupy a commanding position on the "North hill" before the enemy had”
 “Vous feindrez quelquefois d'être faible afin que vos ennemis, ouvrant la porte à la présomption et à l'orgueil, viennent ou vous attaquer mal à propos, ou se laissent surprendre eux-mêmes et tailler en pièces honteusement. Vous ferez en sorte que ceux qui vous sont inférieurs ne puissent jamais pénétrer vos desseins. Vous tiendrez vos troupes toujours alertes, toujours en mouvement et dans l'occupation, pour empêcher qu'elles ne se laissent amollir par un honteux repos.”
 “On ne saurait tenir les troupes longtemps en campagne, sans porter un très grand préjudice à l'État et sans donner une atteinte mortelle à sa propre réputation.”
 “Traitez bien les prisonniers, nourrissez-les comme vos propres soldats ; faites en sorte, s'il se peut, qu'ils se trouvent mieux chez vous qu'ils ne le seraient dans leur propre camp, ou dans le sein même de leur patrie. Ne les laissez jamais oisifs, tirez parti de leurs services avec les défiances convenables, et, pour le dire en deux mots, conduisez-vous à leur égard comme s'ils étaient des troupes qui se fussent enrôlées librement sous vos étendards. Voilà ce que j'appelle gagner une bataille et devenir plus fort.”
 “Je dis plus : la meilleure politique guerrière est de prendre un État intact ; une politique inférieure à celle-ci consisterait à le ruiner.”
 “Connais ton ennemi et connais-toi toi-même ; eussiez-vous cent guerres à soutenir, cent fois vous serez victorieux. Si tu ignores ton ennemi et que tu te connais toi-même, tes chances de perdre et de gagner seront égales. Si tu ignores à la fois ton ennemi et toi-même, tu ne compteras tes combats que par tes défaites.”
 “Donde haya montículos y terraplenes, sitúate en su lado soleado, manteniéndolos siempre a tu derecha y detrás.”
 “Une armée victorieuse remporte l'avantage, avant d'avoir cherché la bataille ; une armée vouée à la défaite combat dans l'espoir de gagner.”
 “Après un premier avantage, n'allez pas vous endormir ou vouloir donner à vos troupes un repos hors de saison. Poussez votre pointe avec la même rapidité qu'un torrent qui se précipiterait de mille toises de haut. Que votre ennemi n'ait pas le temps de se reconnaître, et ne pensez à recueillir les fruits de votre victoire que lorsque sa défaite entière vous aura mis en état de le faire sûrement, avec loisir et tranquillité.”
 “Que l'ennemi ne sache jamais comment vous avez l'intention de le combattre, ni la manière dont vous vous disposez à l'attaquer, ou à vous défendre. Car, s'il se prépare au front, ses arrières seront faibles ; s'il se prépare à l'arrière, son front sera fragile ; s'il se prépare à sa gauche, sa droite sera vulnérable ; s'il se prépare à sa droite, sa gauche sera affaiblie ; et s'il se prépare en tous lieux, il sera partout en défaut. S'il l'ignore absolument, il fera de grands préparatifs, il tâchera de se rendre fort de tous les côtés, il divisera ses forces, et c'est justement ce qui fera sa perte.”
 “Et quand j'ai remporté une bataille, je ne répète pas ma tactique, mais je réponds aux circonstances selon une variété infinie de voies.”
 “Il en doit être des troupes à peu près comme d'une eau courante. De même que l'eau qui coule évite les hauteurs et se hâte vers le pays plat, de même une armée évite la force et frappe la faiblesse.”
 “[The chief lesson of this chapter, in Tu Mu's opinion, is the paramount importance in war of rapid evolutions and sudden rushes. "Great results," he adds, "can thus be achieved with small forces."]”
 “Ainsi, outre l'avantage que vous aurez de faire savoir promptement toutes vos volontés à votre armée entière dans le même moment, vous aurez encore celui de lasser votre ennemi, en le rendant attentif à tout ce qu'il croit que vous voulez entreprendre, de lui faire naître des doutes continuels sur la conduite que vous devez tenir, et de lui inspirer d'éternelles frayeurs.”
 “Au petit matin, les esprits sont pénétrants ; durant la journée, ils s'alanguissent, et le soir, ils rentrent à la maison.”
 “Si, réduits au désespoir, ils viennent pour vaincre ou pour périr, évitez leur rencontre. À un ennemi encerclé vous devez laisser une voie de sortie.”
 “Lo que permite al soberano sabio y al buen general, hacer la guerra y conquistar, y lograr cosas más allá del alcance de los hombres, es el conocimiento anticipado que tienen de las cosas. 5.”
 “Ne négligez pas de courir après un petit avantage lorsque vous pourrez vous le procurer sûrement et sans aucune perte de votre part. Plusieurs de ces petits avantages qu'on pourrait acquérir et qu'on néglige occasionnent souvent de grandes pertes et des dommages irréparables.”
 “Un grand général doit savoir l'art des changements. S'il s'en tient à une connaissance vague de certains principes, à une application routinière des règles de l'art, si ses méthodes de commandement sont dépourvues de souplesse, s'il examine les situations conformément à quelques schémas, s'il prend ses résolutions d'une manière mécanique, il ne mérite pas de commander.”
 “L'excès de récompenses et de punitions montre que le commandement est au bout de ses ressources, et dans une grande détresse”
 “Si quieres fingir cobardía para conocer la estrategia de los adversarios, primero tienes que ser extremadamente valiente, porque solo entonces puedes actuar como tímido de manera artificial. Si quieres fingir debilidad para inducir a la arrogancia en tus enemigos, primero has de ser extremadamente fuerte porque solo entonces puedes pretender ser débil.”
 “fact that the meaning of the Chinese elsewhere in the sentence indicates something in the nature of a defile, make me think that Sun Tzu is here speaking of crevasses.] should be left with all possible speed and not approached. 16. While we keep away from such places, we should get the enemy to approach them; while we face them,”
 “El valiente puede luchar, el cuidadoso puede hacer de centinela, y el inteligente puede estudiar, analizar y comunicar. Cada cuál es útil.”
 “Поэтому сказано: если знаешь врага и знаешь себя, твоя победа будет несомненна. Если знаешь Небо и знаешь Землю, твоя победа будет полной.”
 “Procurez-vous pacifiquement tous les secours dont vous aurez besoin ; n'employez la force que lorsque les autres voies auront été inutiles”
 “Ser violento al principio y terminar temiendo después a los propios soldados es el colmo de la ineptitud.”
 “Donde hay grandes recompensas hay hombres valientes”
 “N'employer pour vaincre que la voie des sièges et des batailles, c'est ignorer également et les devoirs de souverain et ceux de général ; c'est ne pas savoir gouverner ; c'est ne pas savoir servir État”
 “Un viento diurno cesará al anochecer, un viento nocturno cesará al amanecer.”
 “Si vous répandez l'argent à pleines mains, si vous traitez bien tout le monde, si vous empêchez que vos soldats ne fassent le moindre dégât dans les endroits par où ils passeront, si les peuples vaincus ne souffrent aucun dommage, assurez-vous qu'ils sont déjà gagnés, et que le bien qu'ils diront de vous attirera plus de sujets à votre maître et plus de villes sous sa domination que les plus brillantes victoires.”
 “Punissez sévèrement, récompensez avec largesse”
 “18. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.”
 “Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive." He adds: "Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.”
 “La prudencia y la firmeza de un pequeño número de personas pueden llegar a cansar y a dominar incluso a numerosos ejércitos.”
 “Un gobierno no debe movilizar un ejército por ira y los jefes militares no deben provocar la guerra por cólera.”
 “Actúa cuando sea beneficioso; en caso contrario, desiste. La ira puede convertirse en alegría y la cólera puede convertirse en placer, pero un pueblo destruido no puede hacerse renacer y al muerte no puede convertirse en vida. En consecuencia un gobierno esclarecido presta atención a todo esto y un buen mando militar lo tiene en cuenta. Ésta es la manera de mantener a la nación a salvo y de conservar intacto un ejército.”
 “Triunfan aquellos que: -saben cuando luchar y cuando no-saben discernir cuándo utilizar muchas o pocas tropas.-tienen tropas cuyos rangos superiores e inferiores tienen el mismo objetivo.-se enfrentan con preparativos a enemigos desprevenidos.-tienen generales competentes y no limitados por sus gobiernos civiles.”
 “fallar en conocer la situación de los adversarios por economizar en aprobar gastos para investigar y estudiar a la oposición es extremadamente inhumano y no es típico de un buen jefe militar, de un consejero de gobierno, ni de un gobernante victorioso.”
 “Si conoces a los demás y te conoces a ti mismo, ni en cien batallas correrás peligro; si no conoces a los demás, pero te conoces a ti mismo, perderás una batalla y ganarás otra; si no conoces a los demás ni te conoces a ti mismo, correrás peligro en cada batalla.”
 “20. Thus it may be known that the leader of armies is the arbiter of the people's fate, the man on whom it depends whether the nation shall be in peace or in peril.”
 “Hacerte invencible significa conocerte a ti mismo; aguardar para descubrir la vulnerabilidad del adversario significa conocer a los demás.”
 “The answer was again in the affirmative, so arrangements were made to bring 180 ladies out of the Palace. Sun Tzu divided them into two companies, and placed one of the King’s favorite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their hands, and addressed them thus: “I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?”
 “La invencibilidad está en uno mismo, la vulnerabilidad en el adversario.”
 “Anger can revert to joy, wrath can revert to delight, but a nation destroyed cannot be restored to existence, and the dead cannot be restored to life.”
 “Posao je generala bit imiran i nedokučiv, čestit i nepristran. Mora biti sposoban zadržati vlastite čete u neznanju, zatvarati i m oči i uši.”
 “التظاهر بالاضطراب يتطلب قدرا عاليا من النظام.”
 “Hay que reflexionar y deliberar antes de tomar cualquier decisión.”
 “Sun Tzu dijo: En el arte práctico de la guerra, es mejor conservar el país enemigo entero e intacto, que destruirlo y arrasarlo.”
 “the general for his temporary use, or as we should say, in his tent. See. ss. 26.] 1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State. 2. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected. 3. The art of”
 “combatir y vencer en la batalla no es la excelencia suprema, sino que esta reside en romper la resistencia del enemigo sin luchar.”
 “القرارات على الوجه الأكمل؟ الناجية. - أي الجيشين يتفوق في السلاح والعتاد؟ الناجية. - في أي جانب يوجد الضباط والجنود المدربون أفضل التدريب؟ الناجية. - أي الجانبين أكثر صرامة وحيادية في تقدير المكافآت والعقاب؟ الناجية. هذه العوامل يجب أن تكون معروفة”
 “Così quando sei capace, fingi di essere incapace.Quando sei attivo, fingi di essere inattivo.Quando sei vicino, fingi di essere lontano.Quando sei lontano, fingi di essere vicino.Così, quando il nemico cerca il vantaggio, getta l’esca per ingannarlo.Quando è in confusione attaccalo.Quando il nemico è potente, stai in guardia.Quando è forte, evitalo.Quando è infuriato, provocalo.Attaccalo quando è impreparato.Fai la tua mossa quando meno se lo aspetta.”
 “London.”
 “As oportunidades multiplicam-se à medida que são agarradas.”
 “When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated”
 “У місцевості смерті, у безвиході—бийся! Є дороги, якими не треба пересуватись, є ворожі армії, на які не треба нападати, є міста, що їх не варто брати, є місця, за які не слід змагатися, є накази, яких не належить виконувати.”
 “لاتكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره أو عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة.”
 “When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because, according to Dr. Giles, "[I]t contains a”
 “• بناء على مدى توافق الظروف، على المرء أن يعدل خططه.”
 “• لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر.”
 “La defensa es para tiempos de escasez, el ataque para tiempos de abundancia.”
 “• الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله!”
 “War is like a fire—if you do not put it out, it will burn itself out.”
 “• وأفضل الجواسيس من يحمل جنسية العدو ولكنه يؤمن بأهدافك!”
 “Numerical weakness comes from having to prepare against possible attacks; numerical strength, from compelling our adversary to make these preparations against us.”
 “Si solo eres capaz de asegurar la victoria tras enfrentarte a un adversario en un conflicto armado, esa victoria es una dura victoria. Si eres capaz de ver lo sutil y de darte cuenta de lo oculto, irrumpiendo antes del orden de la batalla, la victoria así obtenida es una victoria fácil.”
 “• القتال والانتصار في جميع المعارك ليس هو قمة المهارة، التفوق الأعظم هو كسر مقاومة العدو دون أي قتال.”
 “• قد تعرف السبيل إلى قهر عدوك، دون أن تكون قادراً بالضرورة على عمل ذلك.”
 “• المقاتل الباسل سيكون رهيباً في هجومه، متأنياً عند اتخاذه لقراراته.”
 “• قارن بحرص جيش العدو بجيشك، لتقف على نقاط القوة المفرطة، وتلك الناقصة.”
 “• إذا كنا - في خضم مشاكلنا - مستعدين لانتهاز أي فرصة قد تتاح لنا، فيمكننا أن نُخرج أنفسنا من مأزقنا.”
 “• اغزُ البلاد الخصيبة من أجل إمداد جيشك بالطعام.”
 “El que se enfrenta al oponente durante varios años para luchar por la victoria en una batalla decisiva, pero que por su codicia y su anhelo de honores, permanece ignorante de la situación del oponente; está totalmente desprovisto de humanidad. Un hombre así no tiene nada de comandante, no es un apoyo para su soberano y no es el dueño de la victoria.”
 “El mayor mérito no consiste en ver la victoria cuando ya está clara para todo el mundo; la mayor de las victorias no es, en absoluto, la que es aclamada por todos sin excepción.No se quiere mucha fuerza levantar una pluma; no hay que tener una visión perfecta para ver el sol, ni un oído agudo para escuchar un trueno.Estar preparado para cualquier circunstancia es lo que garantiza una victoria segura, porque significa que estáis combatiendo contra un enemigo que ya está derrotado.”
 “• عمل القائد هو أن يبقى هادئاً فيضمن السرية، وأن يكون مستقيماً وعادلاً، فيضمن استقرار النظام العام.”
 “Triunfan aquellos que:Saben cuándo luchar y cuando no.”
 “• الحاكم المستنير يضع خططه مقدماً، والقائد الناجح يرعى مصادره وجنوده (عن طريق الثواب والعقاب والمكافآت).”
 “- حرب لا تستطيع كسبها حاول تجنبها والجأ للمفاوضات قدر الإمكان.”
 “- الحرب لا تكسب بالقوة بل بالخداع وعدم الاستعجال.”
 “- لا تكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره او عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة.”
 “- حين يكون العدو في متناول اليد ومع ذلك يبقى هادئا فهو يعد لك مكيدة.”
 “- الحرب المثالية هي الحرب السريعة؛ فالحرب الطويلة استنزاف للمنتصر كما هي للخاسر.”
 “- حين تواجه عدوا قويا لا تتحرك حتى تجد فرصة سانحة ولا تحارب حتى يخرج عن طوره ويهاجم!”
 “فقال: "إذا كانت كلمات الأوامر غير واضحة ومميزة وغير مفهومة فيقع اللوم على القائد"، ثم أكمل فأعطى أوامره: "درن لليسار"، لكن النساء انفجرن بالضحك ولم ينفذن الأمر.”
 “- كن مستعدا لتصيد أخطاء العدو؛ فقد لا يأتي النصر بدونها.”
 “- احتفظ بقواتك وقدراتك سرّاً.. فكلما كنت غامضا خافك العدو وضخّم قدراتك!”
 “- ستعرض نفسك لهزيمة محتملة إن لم تحدد (أنت) مكان ووقت المعركة.”
 “- لا تحارب في الظروف الجوية المتطرفة التي يألفها العدو ولا تألفها قواتك!”
 “- الأرض جزء من الجيش وهي التي ترفع أو تخفض من قوته!”
 “L'excès de récompenses et de punitions montre que le commandement est au bout de ses ressources, et dans une grande détresse.”
 “Todos los hombres pueden ver las tácticas, pero lo que nadie puede ver es la estrategia que hace que de estas observaciones evolucione la victoria.”
 “En la guerra, el verdadero objetivo es alcanzar la victoria, y no realizar campañas largas.”
 “- وحين لا تجد؛ ابحث عن الأرض المنبسطة واحمِ ظهرك بخنادق!”
 “- استولِ قبل عدوك على الممرات الضيقة والنقاط المهمة وحين تصل إليها افترض احتلاله لها.”
 “- بادر بقتال العدو حين يعبر النهر.. ولا تجتز أنت وهو على الطرف الآخر.”
 “Comparar cuidadosamente el ejército enemigo con el propio, para saber donde abunda su fuerza y donde es deficiente.”
 “Hay cinco elementos esenciales para la victoria: (1) Ganará, quien sabe cuándo luchar y cuándo no hacerlo. (2) Ganará, quien sabe manejar, tanto las fuerzas superiores como las fuerzas inferiores. (3) Ganará, quien posea el ejército que esté animado por el mismo espíritu en todas sus filas. (4) Ganará, quien preparado, sepa esperar para coger al enemigo desprevenido. (5) Ganará, quien dueño de la capacidad militar, no sea interferido por el soberano.”
 “Los soldados prisioneros deben ser bien tratados, para conseguir que en el futuro luchen para ti.”
 “故善用兵者，屈人之兵，而非戰也”
 “- كلما طالت خطوط تموينك ازداد ضعفك واحتمال التفاف العدو حولك.”
 “Si conoces al enemigo y te conoces a ti mismo, no debes temer el resultado de cien batallas. Si te conoces a ti mismo, pero no al enemigo, por cada victoria obtenida también sufrirás una derrota. Si no sabes nada ni del enemigo ni de ti mismo, sucumbirás en todas las batallas.”
 “- لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر!”
 “Si un general no es valiente, será incapaz de conquistar las dudas y de desarrollar grandes planes"| Estimativos”
 “SUN TZU ON THE ART OF WAR THE OLDEST MILITARY TREATISE IN THE WORLD Translated from the Chinese with Introduction and Critical Notes BY LIONEL GILES, M.A. Assistant in the Department of Oriental Printed Books and MSS. in the British Museum First Published in 1910 -----------------------------------------------------------------To my brother Captain Valentine Giles, R.G. in the hope that a work 2400 years old may yet contain lessons worth consideration by the soldier of today this translation is affectionately dedicated.”
 “12.  Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:— 13.  (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? [I.e., “is in harmony with his subjects.” Cf. ss. 5.] (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? [See ss. 7,8] (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? [Tu Mu alludes to the remarkable story of Ts’ao Ts”
 “(5) Which army is stronger?”
 “- حين تحاصر العدو اترك له فجوة للهرب.. فالضغط بقسوة يجعله يستأسد في القتال.”
 “- الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله!! - وأفضل الجواسيس من يحمل جنسية العدو ولكنه يؤمن بأهدافك!! - وأخيرا.. ضمان النصر النهائي قد يتطلب التضحية بأفضل الجواسيس!!!”
 “Întreaga artă a războiului este bazată pe înșelătorie.”
 “Lo que de mí depende, puedo hacerlo; lo que depende del enemigo es incierto".| Disposiciones”
 “El éxito en la guerra se alcanza cuidando de adaptarse permanentemente al propósito del enemigo.”
 “by Capt. E. F. Calthrop, R.F.A. However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, "excessively bad." He goes further in this criticism: "It is”
 “Protegernos contra la derrota está en nuestras manos, pero la oportunidad de derrotar al enemigo proviene siempre del enemigo.”
 “- إن ما يصلح للتطبيق في الحرب، يصلح للتطبيق في الحياة اليومية. - عندما نستعد لدفع قواتنا للتحرك، يجب أن نتظاهر بالتكاسل (وهو ما حدث في حرب أكتوبر ١٩٧٣ على سبيل المثال). - عدم وجود الشعر الأبيض ليس دليلا على القوة، ورؤية الشمس والقمر لا تعني حدة البصر، وسماع الرعد لا يؤكد سلامة الأذن. - القرار الأقل صوابا في وقت الحاجة إلى الحسم، أصوب من القرار النموذجي بعد ضياع الفرصة. - التظاهر بالاضطراب يتطلب قدرا عاليا من النظام.”
 “Los buenos guerreros hacen que los adversarios vengan a ellos y de ningún modo se dejan atraer fuera de su fortaleza.”
 “los que ganan todas las batallas no son realmente profesionales; los que consiguen que se rindan impotentes los ejércitos ajenos sin luchar son los mejores maestros del Arte de la Guerra.”
 “Ciente de tuas capacidades e limitações, não inicies nenhuma empreitada que não possas levar a cabo.”
 “Every animal with blood in its veins and horns on its head will fight when it is attacked. How much more so will man, who carries in his breast the faculties of love and hatred, joy and anger! When he is pleased, a feeling of affection springs up within him; when angry, his poisoned sting is brought into play. That is the natural law which governs his being. . .”
 “وعودة إلى الكتاب الذي ننقله لك عزيزي القارئ.. كتاب "فن الحرب" الذي حرصت القيادة الأميركية على أن يحمله كل جندي ذهب إلى حرب تحرير الكويت لقراءته، والذي اعتادت الشركات اليابانية على أخذ النصائح التي حفل بها من أجل تطبيقها. هذا الكتاب الذي يمكن تطبيق ما جاء فيه في عالم الاقتصاد والتجارة والسياسة والرياضة، فهو لا يركز على تحقيق النصر فحسب، بل أيضا على تجنب الهزيمة وتقليل وتفادي الخسائر بأكبر قدر ممكن.كما يشرح كيف يمكن أن يتحقق النصر مع تجنب القتال إذا كان ذلك ممكنا. أحمد ناصيف”
 “Hay que dejarle una salida a un ejército rodeado.Muéstrales una manera de salvar la vida para que no estén dispuestos a luchar hasta la muerte, y así podrás aprovecharte para atacarles.No presiones a un enemigo desesperado.Un animal agotado seguirá luchando, pues esa es la ley de la naturaleza.”
 “Cuando te halles en un terreno cerrado, prepara alguna estrategia y muévete. Cuando te halles en un terreno mortal, lucha.”
 “Quão lamentável é arriscar tudo em um único combate, negligenciando a estratégia vitoriosa, e fazer com que o destino de tuas armas dependa de uma única batalha!”
 “Proto se tedy armáda staví lstí , vede se kupředu za získáním výhod a neustále mění svůj tvar, člení se a znovu se spojuje. Jen tak dokáže být rychlá jako vítr, nehybná a stálá jako les. Dokáže útočit a ničit jako oheň; stojí-li, je jako hory. Poznat ji je stejně těžké jako poznat tmu, ale pohybuje se jako hrom.”
 “Si no puedes ser fuerte, pero tampoco sabes ser débil, serás derrotado.”
 “Trestáš-li své muže dříve, než k tobě stačili přilnout, nepodřídí se ti. A nepodřídí-li se ti, nebudou ti k užitku. Netrestáš-li však vojáky ani po té, co k tobě přilnuli, nebudou ti k ničemu.”
 “Pošleš-li muže do boje, pak čím déle bude trvat dosažení vítězství, tím více se otupí jejich zbraně a pohasne žár v jejich srdcích.”
 “¡Divino arte de la sutileza y el secreto! Si se aprende a ser invisible, e inaudible, se puede tener la suerte del enemigo en las manos.”
 “Jsou příkazy vládce, které nepřijmeš.”
 “Ten, kdo často vydává odměny svým vojákům, je v tísni.”
 “Ten, kdo nabízí mír, aniž by si kladl jakýchkoli podmínek, chystá lest.”
 “Postaví-li se do čela vojska muž, který svou moudrostí na takový úkol nestačí, je domýšlivý. Postaví-li se do čela vojska muž, který svou odvahou na takový úkol nestačí, je chvástavý. Postaví-li se do čela vojska muž, který nezná Tao a neprožil dostatek bitev, je vydán štěstěně.”
 “[The heading meansliterally "The Nine Variations," but as SunTzu does not appear to enumerate these, and as, indeed, he hasalready told us (V SS. 6-11) that such deflections from theordinary course are practically innumerable, we have little optionbut to follow Wang Hsi, who says that "Nine" stands for anindefinitely large number.”
 “Vojáci jsou oddáni pěti věcem: Pro svého vojevůdce zapomenou na svou rodinu. Přejdou-li hranici, zapomenou na své příbuzné. Střetnou-li s nepřítelem, zapomenou na sebe. Jsou-li odhodláni zemřít, budou žít. Neustálá honba za vítězstvím je z těchto pěti nejmenší.”
 “preserved in the T`UNG TIEN, and another in Ho Shin's commentary. It is suggested that before his interview with Ho Lu, Sun Tzu had only written the 13 chapters, but afterwards composed a sort of exegesis in the form of question and answer between himself and the King. Pi I-hsun, the author of the SUN TZU HSU LU, backs this up with a quotation from the WU YUEH CH`UN CH`IU: "The King”
 “Una operación militar implica engaño. Aunque seas competente, aparenta ser incompetente. Aunque seas efectivo, muéstrate ineficaz.”
 “No hay más de cinco notas musicales, y sin embargo, las combinaciones de estas cinco dan lugar a más melodías de las que nunca se podrán oír.”
 “Vojska mají pět jmen: První z nich je Hrozivě silné, druhé je Obrovsky domýšlivé, třetí je Pevné a neochvějné, čtvrté je Bázlivé a podezíravé, páté je Nejisté a slabé.”
 “of Turenne, deception of the enemy, especially as to the numerical strength of his troops, took a”
 “cited by Pi I-hsun, we may see in this theory a probable solution of the mystery. Between Ssu-ma Ch`ien and”
 “Tzu except the 82 P`IEN, whereas the Sui and T`ang bibliographies give the titles of others in addition to the "13 chapters," is good proof, Pi I-hsun thinks, that all of these were contained in the 82 P`IEN. Without”
 “very well represent a collected edition of these lumped together with the original work. It is also possible,”
 “latter accretions are not to be considered part of the original work. Tu Mu's assertion can certainly not be taken as proof." There is every reason to suppose, then, that the 13 chapters existed in the time of Ssu-ma”
 “المتخصصين في العلوم الاستراتيجية بأنه"الكتاب المقدس للدراسات العسكرية." وفصول الكتاب الثلاث عشرة لا تأتي سردا لأحداث”
 “Conseguir cien victorias en cien batallas no es la medida de la habilidad: someter al enemigo sin luchar es la suprema excelencia.”
 “Toda guerra se basa en el engaño.”
 “Así es como en la guerra, el estratega victorioso solo busca la batalla después de que la victoria ya se ha ganado, mientras que aquel destinado a la derrota, primero pelea y después busca la victoria.”
 “兵者 詭道也”
 “the latter, hence Hou employed him. Their great achievements were all for the good of the people.”
 “...la norma general de las operaciones militares consiste en no contar con que el enemigo no acuda, sino confiar en tener los medios de enfrentarte a él; no contar con que el adversario no ataque, sino confiar en poseer lo que no puede ser atacado.”
 “Recordar siempre el peligro cuando estás a salvo y el caos en tiempos de orden, permanece atento al peligro y al caos mientras no tengan todavía forma y evítalos antes de que se presenten; ésta es la mejor estrategia de todas.”
 “...existen cinco rasgos que son peligrosos en los generales. Los que están dispuestos a morir pueden perder la vida; los que quieren preservar la vida pueden ser hechos prisioneros; los que son dados a los apasionamientos irracionales pueden ser ridiculizados; los que son muy puritanos pueden ser deshonrados; los que son compasivos pueden ser turbados.”
 “Los buenos generales son de otra manera: se comprometen hasta la muerte, pero no se aferran a la esperanza de sobrevivir; actúan de acuerdo con los acontecimientos en forma racional y realista sin dejarse llevar por las emociones ni estar sujetos a quedar confundidos. Cuando ven una buena oportunidad, son como tigres, en caso contrario cierran sus puertas. Su acción y su no acción son cuestiones de estrategia y no pueden ser complacidos ni enfadados.”
 “Ask yourself which political leadership—your own or that of your enemy—is able to reject flatterers and draw close to the wise.”
 “Es posible saber cómo alcanzar la victoria y no poder llevarla a cabo”.”
 “[Chia Lin enumerates several ways of inflicting this injury, some of which would only occur to the Oriental mind:”
 “Si vas a colocar tu ejército en posición de observar al enemigo, atraviesa rápido las montañas y vigílalos desde un valle.”
 “Hay que prohibir los augurios, y eliminar las supersticiones. Hasta que la misma muerte llegue, no hay calamidad que deba ser temida.”
 “No te sitúes río abajo. No camines en contra de las corriente, ni en contra del viento.”
 “Si vos ennemis sont plus puissants et plus forts que vous, vous ne les attaquerez point, vous éviterez avec un grand soin ce qui peut conduire à un engagement général ; vous cacherez toujours avec une extrême attention l'état où vous vous trouverez.”
 “Todos os soldados cativos devem ser tratados com magnanimidade e ainceridade, para que possam vir a servir-nos.”
 “Un ejército prefiere un terreno elevado y evita un terreno bajo, aprecia la luz y detesta la oscuridad.”
 “Los terrenos bajos son húmedos, lo cual provoca enfermedades y dificulta el combate.”
 “threw light upon the principles of war. It is obvious enough that Ssu-ma Ch`ien at least had no doubt about the reality of Sun Wu as”
 “many words. "Sun Tzu's 13 Chapters and Wu Ch`i's Art of War are the two books that people commonly refer to on the subject of military matters. Both of them are widely distributed, so I will not discuss”
 “L'invincibilité se trouve dans la défense, la possibilité de victoire dans l'attaque.”
 “اقتلاعك لشجرة ضعيفة لا يعني قوتك، وسماعك لقصف الرعد لا يعني أنك حاد السمع، ورؤيتك الشمس لا تعني أنك حاد النظر.”
 “Ser violento al principio y terminar después temiendo a los propios soldados es el colmo de la ineptitud.”
 “A military operation involves deception. Even though you are competent, appear to be incompetent. Though effective, appear to be ineffective.”
 “En asuntos militares, no es necesariamente más beneficioso ser superior en fuerzas, sólo evitar actuar con violencia innecesaria; es suficiente con consolidar tu poder, hacer estimaciones sobre el enemigo y conseguir reunir tropas; eso es todo.”
