 “Try to imagine a life without timekeeping. You probably can’t. You know the month, the year, the day of the week. There is a clock on your wall or the dashboard of your car. You have a schedule, a calendar, a time for dinner or a movie. Yet all around you, timekeeping is ignored. Birds are not late. A dog does not check its watch. Deer do not fret over passing birthdays. an alone measures time. Man alone chimes the hour. And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures. A fear of time running out.”
 “It is never too late or too soon. It is when it is supposed to be.”
 “We all yearn for what we have lost. But sometimes, we forget what we have.”
 “With endless time, nothing is special. With no loss or sacrifice, we can’t appreciate what we have”
 “There is a reason God limits our days.''Why?''To make each one precious.”
 “Sometimes, when you are not getting the love you want, giving makes you think you will.”
 “When you are measuring life, you are not living it.”
 “I made such a fool of myself,” she lamented.“Love does not make you a fool.”“He didn’t love me back.”“That does not make you a fool, either.”“Just tell me …” Her voice cracked. “When does it stop hurting?”“Sometimes never.”
 “Holding on to things only breaks your heart.”
 “Knowing something and understanding it were not the same thing.”
 “When we are most alone is when we embrace another's loneliness.”
 “Ends are for yesterday, not tomorrows.”
 “As mankind grew obsessed with its hours, the sorrow of lost time became a permanent hole in the human heart. People fretted over missed chances, over inefficient days; they worried constantly about how long they would live, because counting life’s moments had led, inevitably, to counting them down. Soon, in every nation and in every language, time became the most precious commodity.”
 “A heart weighs more when it splits in two; it crashes in the chest like a broken plane.”
 “But a desperate heart will seduce the mind.”
 “There is a reason God limits man's days.”
 “No matter how smart she appeared, she wasfragile at her core.”
 “But hurting ourselves to inflict pain on others is just another cry to be loved.”
 “But fates are connected in ways we don’t understand.”
 “You had many more years,” he said.“I didn’t want them.”“But they wanted you. Time is not something you give back. The very next moment may be an answer toyour prayer. To deny that is to deny the most important part of the future.”“What’s that?”“Hope.”
 “He cried that night for all that he had lost, but he would say it taught him a valuable lesson: that holding on to things "will only break your heart.”
 “She felt worthless and hollow. There was no hope of fixing this.And when hope is gone, time is punishment.”
 “But they wanted you. Time is not something you give back. The very next moment may be answer to your prayer. To deny that is to deny the most important part of the future.”
 “There was always a quest for more minutes, more hours, faster progress to accomplish more in each day. The simple joy of living between summers was gone.”
 “But you grab a moment, or you let it pass.”
 “A man who can take anything will find most things unsatisfying. And a man without memories is just a shell.”
 “The length of your days does not belong to you.”
 “Man alone measures time. Man alone chimes the hour. And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures. A fear of time running out.”
 “Everything man does today to be efficient, to fill the hour? It does not satisfy. It only makes him hungry to do more. Man wants to own his existence. But no one owns time. When you are measuring life, you are not living it.”
 “Mankind is connected in ways it does not understand - even in dreams.”
 “With no loss or sacrifice, we can't appreciate what we have.”
 “But common sense has no place in first love and never has.”
 “Consider the word “time.” We use so many phrases with it. Pass time. Waste time. Kill time. Lose time. In good time. About time. Take your time. Save time. A long time. Right on time. Out of time. Mind the time. Be on time. Spare time. Keep time. Stall for time. There are as many expressions with “time” as there are minutes in a day. But once, there was no word for it at all. Because no one was counting. Then Dor began. And everything changed.”
 “When hope is gone, time is punishment.”
 “All who are born are always dying.”
 “Man wants to own his existence. But no one owns time.”
 “What you have done to this point cannot be undone. What you do next... It is still unwritten.”
 “Yet all around you, timekeeping is ignored. Birds are not late. A dog does not check its watch. Deer do not fret over passing birthdays. Man alone measures time. Man alone chimes the hour. And because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creatures endures. A fear of time running out.”
 “We do not realize the sound the world makes -- unless, of course, it comes to a stop. Then, when it starts, it sounds like an orchestra.”
 “Before you measure the years, you measure the days.”
 “Soon man will count all his days, and then smaller segments of the day, and then smaller still—until the counting consumes him, and the wonder of the world he has been given is lost.”
 “Sitting high above the city, Father Time realized that knowing something and understanding it were not the same thing.”
 “Time flies with you”
 “It is too late." The old man shook his head. "It is never too late or too soon. It is when it is supposed to be." He smiled. "There is a plan, Dor.”
 “You marked the minutes," the old man said. "But did you use them wisely? To be still? To cherish? To be grateful? To lift and be lifted?”
 “It is never too late or too soon, the old man had said. It is when it is supposed to be.”
 “Don't get too attached to anything.”
 “He almost told her everything right then, that very moment. But you grab a moment, or you let it pass. He let it pass.”
 “As children grow, they gravitate to their fates.”
 “Dor shook his head. “The phrase. What does it mean?”Sarah wondered if he was kidding. “Time flies? You know, like, time goes really fast and suddenly you’re saying goodbyeand it’s like no time passed at all?”His eyes drifted. He liked it. “Time flies.”“With you,” she added.”
 “Remember this always: There is a reason God limits man's days”
 “We cannot stop what Heaven chooses.”
 “Once, lovers on faraway shores sat by candlelight and dipped ink to parchment, writing words that could not be erased. They took an evening to compose their thoughts, maybe the next evening as well.”
 “He explained how once we began to chime the hour, we lost the ability to be satisfied. There was always a quest for more minutes, more hours, faster progress to accomplish more in each day. The simple joy of living between sunrises was gone.”
 “What will you do with the time you have left?”
 “She had been so consumed with escaping her own misery, she hadn't considered the misery she might inflict.”
 “Please, please, please, please, please...,", squeezing his eyes shut because it somehow made the words more pure.”
 “Learn what you do not know. Understand the consequences of counting the moments.”
 “We’re gonna make up for that. We’re gonna live a long time together.”
 “He did not know that the child who had asked for yesterday was now seeking to own tomorrow.”
 “Before you measure the years, you measure the days. And before the days, you measure the moon.”
 “Please do not leave me, he thought. He could not bear a world without Alli. He realized how much he relied on her from morning until night. She was his only conversation. His only smile. She prepared their meager food and always offered it to him first, even though he insisted she eat before he did. THey leaned on each other at sunsets. Holding her as they slept felt like his last connection to humanity.”
 “This time was different. The tools of this era--phones, computers--enabled people to move at a blurring pace. Yet despite all they accomplished, they were never at peace.”
 “Didn't people call New Year's the loneliest night on the calender? She took comfort in knowing somewhere on the planet, someone might be as miserable as she was.”
 “I lived," Dor said, "but I was not alive.”
 “Man invents nothing God did not create first.”
 “He wondered how it was fair that your dying should depend so much on when you were born.”
 “You really loved her?''I would have given my life.''Would you have taken it?''No, child,' he said.'That is not ours to do.”
 “We do not realize the sound the world makes-unless of course, it comes to a stop. Then, when it starts, it sounds like an orchestra.Breaking waves. Whipping wind. Falling rain. Squawking birds. All throughout the universe, time resumed and nature sang.”
 “A wind blew, and the sand around his drawing scattered. He wrapped his fingers inside his wife's, and Father Time rekindled a connection he had only ever had with her. He surrendered to that sensation and felt the final drops of their lives touch one another, like water in a cave, top meets bottom, Heaven meets Earth.As their eyes closed, a different set of eyes opened, and they rose from the ground as a shared south, up and up, a sun and a moon in a single sky.”
 “The hands of a clock will find their way home.”
 “You were one person, and you changed the world.”
 “A long time. Right on time. Out of time. Mind the time. Be on time. Spare time. Keep time. Stall for time.There are as many expressions with "time" as there are minutes in a day.But once, there was no word for it at all. Because no one was counting.”
 “You were never alone.”
 “A man who can take anything will find most things unsatisfying.”
 “He had his time measures and he had her. That was his life. For as long as he could remember, it had been that way, Dor and Alli, even as children. "I do not want to die," she whispered."You will not die.""I want to be with you.""You are.”
 “Once, lovers on faraway shores sat by candlelight and dipped ink to parchment, writing words that could not be erased. They took an evening to compose their thoughts, maybe the next evening as well. When they mailed the letter, they wrote a name, a street, a city, a country and they melted wax and sealed the envelope with a signet ring.Sarah had never known a world like that. Speed now trumped the quality of words. A fast send was more important.”
 “Not aging is not the same as living”
 “A heart weighs more when it splits in two; it crashes in the chest like a broken plane. Sarah dragged her wreckage back to the house up to her bedroom, and down into a deep, dark hole.”
 “What is the reason?' 'Finish your journey and you will know.”
 “Dor felt a warm, calming feeling when he said those words—She is my wife—because ever since they were children she was like the sky to him, forever around.”
 “And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creatures endures. A fear of time running out”
 “Stay with me.""Forever.”
 “And when gods touched something, the normal became the supernatural, the simple became the wondrous.”
 “Time is not something you give back”
 “Dor came from a time before the written word, a timewhen if you wished to speak with someone, you walked to see them. This time was different. The tools ofthis era—phones, computers—enabled people to move at a blurring pace. Yet despite all theyaccomplished, they were never at peace. They constantly checked their devices to see what time it was—the very thing Dor had tried to determine once with a stick, a stone, and a shadow.”
 “Common sense would have told Sarah to steer clear of Ethan's waters. But common sense has no place in first love and never has.”
 “Everything man does today to be efficient, to fill the hour?" Dor said. "It does not satisfy. It only makes him hungry to do more. Man wants to own his existence. But no one owns time."He lowered his hand from Victor's eyes. "When you are measuring time, you are not living it. I know.”
 “The End is coming. What will you do with the time you have left?”
 “Hurting ourselves to inflict pain on others is just another cry to be loved.”
 “Try to imagine a life without timekeeping. You probably can’t. You know the month, the year, the day of the week. There is a clock on your wall or the dashboard of your car. You have a schedule, a calendar, a time for dinner or a movie. Yet all around you, timekeeping is ignored. Birds are not late. A dog does not check its watch. Deer do not fret over passing birthdays. Man alone measures time. Man alone chimes the hour. And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures. A fear of time running out.”
 “Einstein once postulated that if you traveled at an enormous rate of speed, time would actually slow down relative to the world you left behind,so that seeing the future without aging alongside it was at least theoretically, possible.”
 “But Father Time is real. And, in truth, he cannot age. Beneath the unruly beard and cascading hair—signs of life, not death—his body is lean, his skin unwrinkled, immune to the very thing he lords over.”
 “Her death was as insignificant as her life.”
 “And thus unknowingly, Dor began to serve his sentence -- to hear every plea from every soul who desired more of the thing he had first identified, the thing that moved man further from the simple light of existence and deeper into the darkness of his own obsessions. Time.”
 “I was so lonely.” And Father Time said, “You were never alone.”
 “We all yearn for what we have lost. But sometimes, we forget what we have”
 “What was the constant?Movement. Yes. With time there was always movement. The setting sun. The dripping water. Thependulums. The spilling sand. To realize his destiny, such movement had to cease. He had to stop the flowof time completely …”
 “Please make it yesterday, when Papa came home.”
 “Love does not make you a fool.”
 “No love is worth that trouble.”
 “Grace.”
 “We are, as we die, who we most were in life...”
 “She wanted to blame him, to blame her whole rotton existence. But seeing Ethan, seeing her mother, seeing the world after the world she had known, somehow took her to the very bottom, the end of self-delusion, and the truth enveloped her like a cocoon, and all she said was "I was so lonely." And Father Time said, "You were never alone.”
 “But man invents nothing God did not create first.”
 “But a man who can take anything will find most things unsatisfying.”
 “And a man without memories is just a shell.”
 “Her divorced friends had made a pact not to leave each other alone on nights when loneliness had extra strength.”
 “There is a reason God limits our days.” “Why?” “To make each one precious.”
 “He thought about his son’s stone flying across the yard, the youthful idea that you could toss away the future ifyou didn’t like it—and he realized, suddenly, what he needed to do.”
 “But you grab a moment, or you let it pass.He let it pass.”
 “I prefer them broken.''Why is that?' Victor said.Dor looked at the grain of sand in his fingers.'Because I am the sinner who created them.”
 “But a man who can take anything will find most things unsatisfying. And a man without memories is just a shell.”
 “... But hurting ourselves to inflict pain to others is just another cry to be loved.”
 “But they wanted you. Time is notsomething you give back. The very nextmoment may be an answer to yourprayer. To deny that is to deny the mostimportant part of the future.”“What’s that?”“Hope.”The shame welled up inside her,and once again, she wept. She missedher mother more than ever.“I’m so sorry,” Sarah gasped, tearspouring down her cheeks. “It just feltlike … the end.”“Ends are for yesterdays, nottomorrows.”
 “Once he could read, all knowledge was within reach.”
 “Ethan had told the world, the world sympathized, and Sarah Lemon was now and forever (because wasn't cyberspace instantly forever?) someone you had to be 'nice' to, a pathetic girl who just didn't get it, the scourge of her generation, the lowest rung on the ladder, a loser.”
 “Some of them she had seen for four years without exchanging a word. But that was how high school worked; it issued a verdict and you behaved accordingly.”
 “Every person on the planet-including Grace, Lorraine, Victor and Sarah- will instantly stop aging. And one person with start.”
 “I made such a fool of myself,” she lamented.“Love does not make you a fool.”“He didn’t love me back.”“That does not make you a fool, either.”
 “When you are measuring life, you are not living it...”
 “A man without memories is just a shell.”
 “Bila kita diberi waktu tak terbatas, tidak ada lagi yang istimewa. Tanpa kehilangan atau pengorbanan, kita tidak bisa menghargai apa yang kita punya”
 “Kadang-kadang, kalau tidak mendapatkan cinta yang kau inginkan, dengan memberi kau pikir kau akan mendapatkannya.”
 “Try to imagine a life without timekeeping. You probably can’t. You know the month, the year, the day of the week. There is a clock on your wall or the dashboard of your car. You have a schedule, a calendar, a time for dinner or a movie. Yet all around you, timekeeping is ignored. Birds are not late. A dog does not check its watch. Deer do not fret over passing birthdays. an alone measures time. Man alone chimes the hour. And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures. A fear of time running out.” ― Mitch Albom, The Time Keeper”
 “Holding onto things will only break your heart”
 “Common sense has no place in first love and never has.”
 “With his power over time, Dor could have taken anything he desired from this new world. But a man who can take anything will find most things unsatisfying.”
 “Why did you measure the days and nights? To know. Sitting high above the city, Father Time realized that knowing something and understanding it were not the same thing.”
 “Sometimes when you are not getting the love you want, giving makes you think you will”
 “Mankind is connected in ways it does not understand—even in dreams. Just”
 “Holding on to things will only break your heart”
 “la pérdida le había enseñado algo muy importante: afferrarse a lo material <>”
 “voice. And while they deepen with age, voices are, to one destined to listen for eternity, as distinct as a fingerprint.”
 “la pérdida le había enseñado algo muy importante: aferrarse a lo material 'solo sirve para ser un desgraciado'.”
 “Not aging is not the same as living, and without human contact, his soul dried up.”
 “Only God can write the end of your story.""God has left me alone," Dor said.The old man shook his head. "You were never alone.”
 “He almost told her everything right then, that very moment. But you grab a moment, or you let it pass. He let it pass. “Me,”
 “With his power over time, For could have taken anything he desired from this new world. But a man who can take anything will find most things unsatisfying. And a man without memories is just a shell.”
 “He did not know that the child whohad asked for yesterday was nowseeking to own tomorrow.Victor never prayed”
 “Once, lovers on faraway shoressat by candlelight and dipped ink toparchment, writing words that couldnot be erased.They took an evening to composetheir thoughts, maybe the next evening aswell. When they mailed the letter, theywrote a name, a street, a city, and acountry and they melted wax and sealedthe envelope with a signet ring.”
 “Sarah watched the man sitalongside other homeless clients.Despite their awful circumstances, theywere going on with life, getting throughit as best they could.”
 “Man alone measures time.Man alone chimes the hour.And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralysing fear that no other creature endures.A fear of time running out.”
 “Living without love wassomething he knew more about than anysoul on Earth. The more Sarah spoke ofloneliness, the clearer it became why hewas there.”
 “Ends are for yesterdays, not tomorrows.”
 “I tried to stop your suffering," he said."We cannot stop what Heaven chooses."She smiled weakly."Stay with me.""Forever.”
 “Sarah Lemon: “It just felt like... the end.”Dor: “Ends are for yesterdays, not tomorrows.”
 “With each new carving, he spoke out loud. He was doing what man does when left with nothing. He was telling himself his own life story.”
 “... Time is not something you give back. The very next moment may be an answer to your prayer. To deny that is to deny the most important part of the future.”“ What’s that?”“Hope.”
 “Dying," Morris suddenly said, "is only one thing to be sad over, Mitch. Living unhappily is something else. So many of the people who come to visit me are unhappy."Why?"Well, for one thing, the culture we have does not make people feel good about themselves. We're teaching the wrong things. And you have to be strong enough to say if the culture doesn't work, don't buy it. Create your own. Most people can't do it. They're more unhappy than me -- even in my current condition. I may be dying, but I am surrounded by loving, caring souls. How many people can say that?”
 “She wanted to melt into the ground at that moment, just hot wax into a puddle and disappear through a sewer grate. His eyes. That look. No interest. Total humiliation”
 “Once, he had prided himself on keeping time with water. But man invents nothing God did not create first.”
 “Îți poți imagina să ai un timp infinit la dispoziție pentru a învăța?”
 “Ends are for yesterdays, not tomorrows.” Dor”
 “Before I came to you,” he said, “you came to me.” Sarah studied his face. “You don’t really fix clocks, do you?” “I prefer them broken.” “Why is that?” Victor said. Dor looked at the grain of sand in his fingers. “Because I am the sinner who created them.”
 “Kai laiko turi be galo, niekas nebėra ypatinga. Be netekčių ar aukos mes nesugebame įvertinti to, ką turime.”
 “-Dievas riboja mūsų dienų skaičių ne be priežasties.-Kokia to priežastis?-Kad kiekviena diena būtų brangi.”
 “The lust for power is combustible thing”
 “When we are most alone is when we embrace another’s loneliness.”
 “They fill every waking minute with action, but they are empty. “To”
 “And thus, unknowingly, did Dor begin to serve his sentence— to hear every plea from every soul who desired more of the thing he had first identified, the thing that moved man further from the simple light of existence and deeper into the darkness of his own obsessions. Time. It seemed to be running too fast for everyone but him.”
 “Y sin esperanza, el tiempo es un castigo”
 “Intenta imaginar cómo sería la vida si no contásemos el tiempo.Lo más probable es que no puedas. Sabes en qué mes, año y día de la semana te encuentras. En la pared, o en el salpicadero de tu coche, hay un reloj. Tienes un horario, un calendario, una hora para comer o ir al cine.Pero a tu alrededor se ignora el cómputo del tiempo. los pájaros no se retrasan. No hay perros que miren el reloj. Los ciervos no temen olvidar los cumpleaños.Solo el hombre mide el tiempo.Solo el hombre da las horas.Y a causa de ello, el hombre sufre un miedo paralizador que no padece ningún ser vivo: El miedo a que se le acabe el tiempo.”
 “Consider the word "time." We use so many phrases with it. Pass time. Waste time. Kill time. Lose time. In good time. About time. Take your time. Save time. A long time. Right on time. Out of time. Mind the time. Be on time. Spare time. Keep time. Stall for time. There are as many expressions with "time" as there are minutes in a day. But once, there was no word for it at all. Because no one was counting. Then Dor began. And everything changed.”
 “Man rarely knows his own power," the old man said.”
 “Remember this always: There is a reason God limits man’s days.”“What is the reason?”“Finish your journey and you will know.”
 “Holding on to things "will only break your heart.”
 “Counting life's moments had led, inevitably, to counting them down.”
 “He tolerated it until he could tolerate it no more.”
 “all she said was, “I was so lonely.” And Father Time said, “You were never alone.”
 “Remember this always: There is a reason God limits man's days.”
 “When you are measuring life, you are not living it. I know.”
 “We do not realize the sound the world makes - unless, of course, it comes to a stop. Then, when it starts, it sounds like an orchestra.”
 “Sarah dragged her wreckage back to the house, up to her bedroom, and down intoa deep dark hole.”
 “Hurting ourselves to inflict pain on others is just another cry to be loved”
 “Holding on things will only break your heart”
 “Man rarely knows his own power,”
 “Man alone measures time.Man alone chimes the hour.And, because of this, man alone suffers a paralyzing fear that no other creature endures.''A fear of time running out.”
 “that holding on to things “will only break your heart.” So he avoided attachments,”
 “She hugged her arms around his chest and leaned her head into his shoulder. She did this every night, and like most small demonstrations of love, it had a large impact. Dor felt a surge of calm whenever she held him, like being wrapped in a blanket, and he knew no one else would ever love or understand him the way she did. He nestled his face into her long dark hair, and he breathed a way he never breathed except when he was with her.”
