 “Ellen had said that her mother was afraid of the ocean, that it was too cold and too big. The sky was, too, thought Annemarie. The whole world was: too cold, too big. And too cruel. ”
 “She fell asleep, and it was a sleep as thin as the night clouds, dotted with dreams that came and went like the stars.”
 “Mama was crying, and the rain made it seem as if the whole world was crying.”
 “The whole world had changed. Only the fairy tales remained the same. "And they lived happily ever after,”
 “And they are beginning to realize that the world they live in is a place where the right thing is often hard, sometimes dangerous, and frequently unpopular.”
 “it is much easier to be brave if you do not know everything”
 “The whole world had changed. Only the fairy tales remained the same.”
 “...and I want you all to remember-that you must not dream yourselves back to the times before the war, but the dream for you all, young and old, must be to create an ideal of human decency, and not a narrow-minded and prejudiced one. That is the great gift our country hungers for, something every little peasant boy can look forward to, and with pleasure feel he is a part of-something he can work and fight for."Surely that gift-the gift of a world of human decency-is the one that all countries hunger for still. I hope that this story of Denmark, and its people, will remind us all that such a world is possible.”
 “It was harder for the ones who were waiting, Annemarie knew. Less danger, perhaps, but more fear.”
 “...and I want you all to remember- that you must not dream yourselves back to the times before the war, but the dream for you all, young and old, must be to create an ideal of human decency, and not a narrow-minded and prejudiced one.”
 “Outside, she knew, the sky was speckled with stars. How could anyone number them one by one, as the psalm said? There were too many. The sky was too big.”
 “But their shoulders were as straight as they had been in the past: in the classroom, on the stage, at the Sabbath table. So there were other sources, too, of pride, and they had not left everything behind.”
 “and I want you all to remember—that you must not dream yourselves back to the times before the war, but the dream for you all, young and old, must be to create an ideal of human decency, and not a narrow-minded and prejudiced one. That is the great gift our country hungers for, something every little peasant boy can look forward to, and with pleasure feel he is a part of—something he can work and fight for.”
 “That's all that brave means - not thinking about the dangers. Just thinking about what you must do. Of course you were frightened. I was too, today. But you kept your mind on what you had to do.”
 “The God of Thunder has fallen into the milk pail!”
 “I wish I could have a cupcake,”
 “Any Danish citizen would die for King Christian, to protect him.”
 “Dangers were no more than odd imaginings, like ghost stories that children made up to frighten one another: things that couldn't possibly happen.”
 “Surely that gift—the gift of a world of human decency—is the one that all countries hunger for still.”
 “I came across an account of a young man named Kim Malthe-Bruun, who was eventually captured and executed by the Nazis when he was only twenty-one years old. I read his story as I had read many others, turning the pages, skimming here and there: this sabotage, that tactic, this capture, that escape. After a while even courage becomes routine to the reader. Then, quite unprepared, I turned the page and faced a photograph of Kim Malthe-Bruun. He wore a turtleneck sweater, and his thick, light hair was windblown. His eyes looked out at me, unwavering on the page. Seeing him there, so terribly young, broke my heart.”
 “Ellen had said that her mother was frightened of the ocean, that it was too cold and too big. The sky was, too, thought Annemarie. The whole world was: too cold, too big. And too cruel.”
 “dogs”
 “. . and I want you all to remember—that you must not dream yourselves back to the times before the war, but the dream for you all, young and old, must be to create an ideal of human decency, and not a narrow-minded and prejudiced one. That is the great gift our country hungers for, something every little peasant boy can look forward to, and with pleasure feel he is a part of—something he can work and fight for.   Surely that gift—the gift of a world of human decency—is the one that all countries hunger for still. I hope that this story of Denmark, and its people, will remind us all that such a world is possible.”
 “The sky was, too, thought Annemarie. The whole world was: too cold, too big. And too cruel.”
 “they lived happily ever after,”
 “Henrik, you need a wife,” Mama scolded him. Uncle Henrik laughed and joined Mama on the steps near the kitchen door. “Why do I need a wife, when I have a sister?”
 “There had been no real coffee in Copenhagen since the beginning of the Nazi occupation. Not even any real tea. The mothers sipped at hot water flavored with herbs. “Annemarie,”
 “and we have been told that they may come tonight”
 “So, Henrik, is the weather good for fishing?” Papa asked cheerfully, and listened briefly. Then he continued, “I’m sending Inge to you today with the children, and she will be bringing you a carton of cigarettes. “Yes, just one,” he said, after a moment. Annemarie couldn’t hear Uncle Henrik’s words. “But there are a lot of cigarettes available in Copenhagen now, if you know where to look,” he went on, “and so there will be others coming to you as well, I’m sure.” But it wasn’t true. Annemarie was quite certain it wasn’t true. Cigarettes were the thing that Papa missed, the way Mama missed coffee. He complained often—he had complained only yesterday—that there were no cigarettes in the stores.”
 “My best friend—her name was Helena—lived in that house. Sometimes I used to spend the night with her. But more often she came to my house, on weekends. It was more fun to be in the country.”
 “It is much easier to be brave if you don't know everything.”
 “Kirsti sighed as Annemarie went to the breadbox in the kitchen. “I wish I could have a cupcake,” she said. “A big yellow cupcake, with pink frosting.” Her mother laughed. “For a little girl, you have a long memory,” she told Kirsti. “There hasn’t been any butter, or sugar for cupcakes, for a long time. A year, at least.” “When will there be cupcakes again?” “When the war ends,” Mrs. Johansen said. She glanced through the window, down to the street corner where the soldiers stood, their faces impassive beneath the metal helmets. “When the soldiers leave.”
 “Mama was out shopping with Kirsti, Annemarie and Ellen were sprawled on the living room floor playing with paper dolls. They had cut the dolls from Mama’s magazines, old ones she had saved from past years. The paper ladies had old-fashioned hair styles and clothes, and the girls had given them names from Mama’s very favorite book. Mama had told Annemarie and Ellen the entire story of Gone With the”
 “No butter,”
 “I’m going to win the girls’ race this week.”
 “she looked into the face of the soldier”
 “Ellen’s parents? We must help them, too!” “We couldn’t take all three of them. If the Germans came to search our apartment”
 “The God of Thunder has”
 “The corner was just ahead.”
 “There are German soldiers on every corner.”
 “They sat silently for a moment.”
 “For Kirsti, the soldiers were simply part of the landscape, something”
 “You can stand at the edge of the meadow and look across to Sweden!”
 “she knew, the sky was speckled with stars. How could anyone number them one by one, as the psalm said? There were too many. The sky was too big.”
 “For Kirsti, the soldiers were simply part of the landscape, something that had always been there, on every corner, as unimportant as lampposts, throughout her remembered life.”
 “Don’t ever be sorry for that. Weren’t we lucky that Papa thought so quickly and found the pictures? And weren’t we lucky that Lise had dark hair when she was a baby? It turned blond later on, when she was two or so.” “In between,” Papa added, “she was bald for a while!” Ellen and Annemarie both smiled tentatively. For a moment their fear was eased.”
 “como si dijera: «Ya casi hemos terminado», y ciertamente los chorritos de leche salieron más finos y lentos. Dio un apretón final,”
 “Be one of many. Be sure that they never have reason to remember your face.”
 “Annemarie admitted to herself, snuggling there in the quiet dark, that she was glad to be an ordinary person who would never be called upon for courage.”
 “Ellen was motionless on the sidewalk,”
 “Don’t keep interrupting or I’ll never finish the story.”
 “There were stars here and there, dotting the sky among thin clouds, but no moon. Annemarie shivered, standing at the foot of the steps. “Come,” Mama murmured, and she moved away from the house. One by one the Rosens turned and hugged Annemarie silently. Ellen came to her last; the two girls held each other. “I’ll come back someday,” Ellen whispered fiercely. “I promise.” “I know you will,” Annemarie whispered back, holding her friend tightly. Then they were gone, Mama and the Rosens. Annemarie was alone. She went into the house, crying suddenly, and closed the door against the night. The lid of the casket was closed again. Now the room was empty; there was no sign of the people who had sat there for those hours. Annemarie wiped her eyes with the back of her hand. She opened the dark curtains and the windows; she curled once more in the rocker, trying to relax; she traced their route in her mind. She knew the old path, too—not as well as her mother, who had followed it almost every day of her childhood with her dog scampering behind. But Annemarie had often walked to town and back that way, and she remembered the turns, the twisted trees whose gnarled roots pushed the earth now and then into knotted clumps, and the thick bushes that often flowered in early summer. She walked with them in her mind, feeling the way through the darkness. It would take them, she thought, half an hour to reach the place where Uncle Henrik was waiting with his boat. Mama would leave them there—pausing a minute, no more, for a final hug—and then she would turn and come home. It would be faster for Mama alone, with no need to wait as the Rosens, unfamiliar with the path, slowly felt their way along. Mama would hurry, sure-footed now, back to her children.”
 “Mama, what is this?” she asked suddenly, reaching into the grass at the foot of the steps. Mama looked. She gasped. “Oh, my God,” she said. Annemarie picked it up. She recognized it now, knew what it was. It was the packet that Peter had given to Mr. Rosen. “Mr. Rosen tripped on the step, remember? It must have fallen from his pocket. We’ll have to save it and give it back to Peter.” Annemarie handed it to her mother. “Do you know what it is?”
 “Danes had on their windows; the entire city had to be completely darkened at night. In a nearby tree, a bird was singing; otherwise it was quiet. It was the last night of September. “Go, now, and get into your nightgowns. It will be a long night.” Annemarie and Ellen got to their feet. Papa suddenly crossed the room and put his arms around them both. He kissed the top of each head: Annemarie’s blond one, which reached to his shoulder, and Ellen’s dark hair, the thick”
 “From across the room, Mama watched them,”
 “There was no fuel now for the homes and apartments in Copenhagen, and the winter nights were terribly cold.”
 “the long neck that extended from his stiff collar.”
 “mama and papa when it gets cold,” Mama said, smiling. “I remember when Kirsti slept between you and Papa. She was supposed to stay in her crib, but in the middle of the night she would climb out and get in with you,” Annemarie said, smoothing the pillows on the bed. Then she hesitated and glanced at her mother, fearful that she had said the wrong thing, the thing that would bring the pained look to her mother’s face. The days when little Kirsti slept in Mama and Papa’s room were the days when Lise and Annemarie shared this bed. But Mama was laughing quietly.”
 “What is in here?” he asked loudly.”
 “still clutched Ellen’s necklace. She looked down, and saw that she had imprinted”
 “It was a question she did not want to be asked. When she asked it of herself, she didn’t like her own answer.”
 “He seemed much older and very tired, defeated.”
 “One by one the Rosens turned and hugged Annemarie silently. Ellen came to her last; the two girls held each other. “I’ll come back someday,” Ellen whispered fiercely. “I promise.” “I know you will,” Annemarie whispered back, holding her friend tightly. Then they were gone,”
 “Mama was laughing quietly. “I remember, too,” she said. “Sometimes she wet the bed in the middle of the night!” “I did not!” Kirsti said haughtily from the bedroom doorway. “I never, ever did that!”
 “the history of Denmark has much to teach us all.”
 “Annemarie’s silvery blond hair flew behind her,”
 “Frie Danske”
 “God of Thunder made a very small rain shower in the corner of the kitchen floor. Keep an eye on him.”
